Book VII. Alyosha




Chapter I.
The Breath Of Corruption


The body of Father Zossima was prepared for burial according to the
established ritual. As is well known, the bodies of dead monks and
hermits are not washed. In the words of the Church Ritual: “If any one
of the monks depart in the Lord, the monk designated (that is, whose
office it is) shall wipe the body with warm water, making first the
sign of the cross with a sponge on the forehead of the deceased, on the
breast, on the hands and feet and on the knees, and that is enough.”
All this was done by Father Païssy, who then clothed the deceased in
his monastic garb and wrapped him in his cloak, which was, according to
custom, somewhat slit to allow of its being folded about him in the
form of a cross. On his head he put a hood with an eight-cornered
cross. The hood was left open and the dead man’s face was covered with
black gauze. In his hands was put an ikon of the Saviour. Towards
morning he was put in the coffin which had been made ready long before.
It was decided to leave the coffin all day in the cell, in the larger
room in which the elder used to receive his visitors and fellow monks.
As the deceased was a priest and monk of the strictest rule, the
Gospel, not the Psalter, had to be read over his body by monks in holy
orders. The reading was begun by Father Iosif immediately after the
requiem service. Father Païssy desired later on to read the Gospel all
day and night over his dead friend, but for the present he, as well as
the Father Superintendent of the Hermitage, was very busy and occupied,
for something extraordinary, an unheard-of, even “unseemly” excitement
and impatient expectation began to be apparent in the monks, and the
visitors from the monastery hostels, and the crowds of people flocking
from the town. And as time went on, this grew more and more marked.
Both the Superintendent and Father Païssy did their utmost to calm the
general bustle and agitation.

When it was fully daylight, some people began bringing their sick, in
most cases children, with them from the town—as though they had been
waiting expressly for this moment to do so, evidently persuaded that
the dead elder’s remains had a power of healing, which would be
immediately made manifest in accordance with their faith. It was only
then apparent how unquestionably every one in our town had accepted
Father Zossima during his lifetime as a great saint. And those who came
were far from being all of the humbler classes.

This intense expectation on the part of believers displayed with such
haste, such openness, even with impatience and almost insistence,
impressed Father Païssy as unseemly. Though he had long foreseen
something of the sort, the actual manifestation of the feeling was
beyond anything he had looked for. When he came across any of the monks
who displayed this excitement, Father Païssy began to reprove them.
“Such immediate expectation of something extraordinary,” he said,
“shows a levity, possible to worldly people but unseemly in us.”

But little attention was paid him and Father Païssy noticed it
uneasily. Yet he himself (if the whole truth must be told), secretly at
the bottom of his heart, cherished almost the same hopes and could not
but be aware of it, though he was indignant at the too impatient
expectation around him, and saw in it light-mindedness and vanity.
Nevertheless, it was particularly unpleasant to him to meet certain
persons, whose presence aroused in him great misgivings. In the crowd
in the dead man’s cell he noticed with inward aversion (for which he
immediately reproached himself) the presence of Rakitin and of the monk
from Obdorsk, who was still staying in the monastery. Of both of them
Father Païssy felt for some reason suddenly suspicious—though, indeed,
he might well have felt the same about others.

The monk from Obdorsk was conspicuous as the most fussy in the excited
crowd. He was to be seen everywhere; everywhere he was asking
questions, everywhere he was listening, on all sides he was whispering
with a peculiar, mysterious air. His expression showed the greatest
impatience and even a sort of irritation.

As for Rakitin, he, as appeared later, had come so early to the
hermitage at the special request of Madame Hohlakov. As soon as that
good-hearted but weak-minded woman, who could not herself have been
admitted to the hermitage, waked and heard of the death of Father
Zossima, she was overtaken with such intense curiosity that she
promptly dispatched Rakitin to the hermitage, to keep a careful look
out and report to her by letter every half-hour or so “_everything that
takes place_.” She regarded Rakitin as a most religious and devout
young man. He was particularly clever in getting round people and
assuming whatever part he thought most to their taste, if he detected
the slightest advantage to himself from doing so.

It was a bright, clear day, and many of the visitors were thronging
about the tombs, which were particularly numerous round the church and
scattered here and there about the hermitage. As he walked round the
hermitage, Father Païssy remembered Alyosha and that he had not seen
him for some time, not since the night. And he had no sooner thought of
him than he at once noticed him in the farthest corner of the hermitage
garden, sitting on the tombstone of a monk who had been famous long ago
for his saintliness. He sat with his back to the hermitage and his face
to the wall, and seemed to be hiding behind the tombstone. Going up to
him, Father Païssy saw that he was weeping quietly but bitterly, with
his face hidden in his hands, and that his whole frame was shaking with
sobs. Father Païssy stood over him for a little.

“Enough, dear son, enough, dear,” he pronounced with feeling at last.
“Why do you weep? Rejoice and weep not. Don’t you know that this is the
greatest of his days? Think only where he is now, at this moment!”

Alyosha glanced at him, uncovering his face, which was swollen with
crying like a child’s, but turned away at once without uttering a word
and hid his face in his hands again.

“Maybe it is well,” said Father Païssy thoughtfully; “weep if you must,
Christ has sent you those tears.”

“Your touching tears are but a relief to your spirit and will serve to
gladden your dear heart,” he added to himself, walking away from
Alyosha, and thinking lovingly of him. He moved away quickly, however,
for he felt that he too might weep looking at him.

Meanwhile the time was passing; the monastery services and the requiems
for the dead followed in their due course. Father Païssy again took
Father Iosif’s place by the coffin and began reading the Gospel. But
before three o’clock in the afternoon that something took place to
which I alluded at the end of the last book, something so unexpected by
all of us and so contrary to the general hope, that, I repeat, this
trivial incident has been minutely remembered to this day in our town
and all the surrounding neighborhood. I may add here, for myself
personally, that I feel it almost repulsive to recall that event which
caused such frivolous agitation and was such a stumbling-block to many,
though in reality it was the most natural and trivial matter. I should,
of course, have omitted all mention of it in my story, if it had not
exerted a very strong influence on the heart and soul of the chief,
though future, hero of my story, Alyosha, forming a crisis and
turning-point in his spiritual development, giving a shock to his
intellect, which finally strengthened it for the rest of his life and
gave it a definite aim.

And so, to return to our story. When before dawn they laid Father
Zossima’s body in the coffin and brought it into the front room, the
question of opening the windows was raised among those who were around
the coffin. But this suggestion made casually by some one was
unanswered and almost unnoticed. Some of those present may perhaps have
inwardly noticed it, only to reflect that the anticipation of decay and
corruption from the body of such a saint was an actual absurdity,
calling for compassion (if not a smile) for the lack of faith and the
frivolity it implied. For they expected something quite different.

And, behold, soon after midday there were signs of something, at first
only observed in silence by those who came in and out and were
evidently each afraid to communicate the thought in his mind. But by
three o’clock those signs had become so clear and unmistakable, that
the news swiftly reached all the monks and visitors in the hermitage,
promptly penetrated to the monastery, throwing all the monks into
amazement, and finally, in the shortest possible time, spread to the
town, exciting every one in it, believers and unbelievers alike. The
unbelievers rejoiced, and as for the believers some of them rejoiced
even more than the unbelievers, for “men love the downfall and disgrace
of the righteous,” as the deceased elder had said in one of his
exhortations.

The fact is that a smell of decomposition began to come from the
coffin, growing gradually more marked, and by three o’clock it was
quite unmistakable. In all the past history of our monastery, no such
scandal could be recalled, and in no other circumstances could such a
scandal have been possible, as showed itself in unseemly disorder
immediately after this discovery among the very monks themselves.
Afterwards, even many years afterwards, some sensible monks were amazed
and horrified, when they recalled that day, that the scandal could have
reached such proportions. For in the past, monks of very holy life had
died, God-fearing old men, whose saintliness was acknowledged by all,
yet from their humble coffins, too, the breath of corruption had come,
naturally, as from all dead bodies, but that had caused no scandal nor
even the slightest excitement. Of course there had been, in former
times, saints in the monastery whose memory was carefully preserved and
whose relics, according to tradition, showed no signs of corruption.
This fact was regarded by the monks as touching and mysterious, and the
tradition of it was cherished as something blessed and miraculous, and
as a promise, by God’s grace, of still greater glory from their tombs
in the future.

One such, whose memory was particularly cherished, was an old monk,
Job, who had died seventy years before at the age of a hundred and
five. He had been a celebrated ascetic, rigid in fasting and silence,
and his tomb was pointed out to all visitors on their arrival with
peculiar respect and mysterious hints of great hopes connected with it.
(That was the very tomb on which Father Païssy had found Alyosha
sitting in the morning.) Another memory cherished in the monastery was
that of the famous Father Varsonofy, who was only recently dead and had
preceded Father Zossima in the eldership. He was reverenced during his
lifetime as a crazy saint by all the pilgrims to the monastery. There
was a tradition that both of these had lain in their coffins as though
alive, that they had shown no signs of decomposition when they were
buried and that there had been a holy light in their faces. And some
people even insisted that a sweet fragrance came from their bodies.

Yet, in spite of these edifying memories, it would be difficult to
explain the frivolity, absurdity and malice that were manifested beside
the coffin of Father Zossima. It is my private opinion that several
different causes were simultaneously at work, one of which was the
deeply-rooted hostility to the institution of elders as a pernicious
innovation, an antipathy hidden deep in the hearts of many of the
monks. Even more powerful was jealousy of the dead man’s saintliness,
so firmly established during his lifetime that it was almost a
forbidden thing to question it. For though the late elder had won over
many hearts, more by love than by miracles, and had gathered round him
a mass of loving adherents, none the less, in fact, rather the more on
that account he had awakened jealousy and so had come to have bitter
enemies, secret and open, not only in the monastery but in the world
outside it. He did no one any harm, but “Why do they think him so
saintly?” And that question alone, gradually repeated, gave rise at
last to an intense, insatiable hatred of him. That, I believe, was why
many people were extremely delighted at the smell of decomposition
which came so quickly, for not a day had passed since his death. At the
same time there were some among those who had been hitherto reverently
devoted to the elder, who were almost mortified and personally
affronted by this incident. This was how the thing happened.

As soon as signs of decomposition had begun to appear, the whole aspect
of the monks betrayed their secret motives in entering the cell. They
went in, stayed a little while and hastened out to confirm the news to
the crowd of other monks waiting outside. Some of the latter shook
their heads mournfully, but others did not even care to conceal the
delight which gleamed unmistakably in their malignant eyes. And now no
one reproached them for it, no one raised his voice in protest, which
was strange, for the majority of the monks had been devoted to the dead
elder. But it seemed as though God had in this case let the minority
get the upper hand for a time.

Visitors from outside, particularly of the educated class, soon went
into the cell, too, with the same spying intent. Of the peasantry few
went into the cell, though there were crowds of them at the gates of
the hermitage. After three o’clock the rush of worldly visitors was
greatly increased and this was no doubt owing to the shocking news.
People were attracted who would not otherwise have come on that day and
had not intended to come, and among them were some personages of high
standing. But external decorum was still preserved and Father Païssy,
with a stern face, continued firmly and distinctly reading aloud the
Gospel, apparently not noticing what was taking place around him,
though he had, in fact, observed something unusual long before. But at
last the murmurs, first subdued but gradually louder and more
confident, reached even him. “It shows God’s judgment is not as man’s,”
Father Païssy heard suddenly. The first to give utterance to this
sentiment was a layman, an elderly official from the town, known to be
a man of great piety. But he only repeated aloud what the monks had
long been whispering. They had long before formulated this damning
conclusion, and the worst of it was that a sort of triumphant
satisfaction at that conclusion became more and more apparent every
moment. Soon they began to lay aside even external decorum and almost
seemed to feel they had a sort of right to discard it.

“And for what reason can _this_ have happened,” some of the monks said,
at first with a show of regret; “he had a small frame and his flesh was
dried up on his bones, what was there to decay?”

“It must be a sign from heaven,” others hastened to add, and their
opinion was adopted at once without protest. For it was pointed out,
too, that if the decomposition had been natural, as in the case of
every dead sinner, it would have been apparent later, after a lapse of
at least twenty-four hours, but this premature corruption “was in
excess of nature,” and so the finger of God was evident. It was meant
for a sign. This conclusion seemed irresistible.

Gentle Father Iosif, the librarian, a great favorite of the dead man’s,
tried to reply to some of the evil speakers that “this is not held
everywhere alike,” and that the incorruptibility of the bodies of the
just was not a dogma of the Orthodox Church, but only an opinion, and
that even in the most Orthodox regions, at Athos for instance, they
were not greatly confounded by the smell of corruption, and there the
chief sign of the glorification of the saved was not bodily
incorruptibility, but the color of the bones when the bodies have lain
many years in the earth and have decayed in it. “And if the bones are
yellow as wax, that is the great sign that the Lord has glorified the
dead saint, if they are not yellow but black, it shows that God has not
deemed him worthy of such glory—that is the belief in Athos, a great
place, where the Orthodox doctrine has been preserved from of old,
unbroken and in its greatest purity,” said Father Iosif in conclusion.

But the meek Father’s words had little effect and even provoked a
mocking retort. “That’s all pedantry and innovation, no use listening
to it,” the monks decided. “We stick to the old doctrine, there are all
sorts of innovations nowadays, are we to follow them all?” added
others.

“We have had as many holy fathers as they had. There they are among the
Turks, they have forgotten everything. Their doctrine has long been
impure and they have no bells even,” the most sneering added.

Father Iosif walked away, grieving the more since he had put forward
his own opinion with little confidence as though scarcely believing in
it himself. He foresaw with distress that something very unseemly was
beginning and that there were positive signs of disobedience. Little by
little, all the sensible monks were reduced to silence like Father
Iosif. And so it came to pass that all who loved the elder and had
accepted with devout obedience the institution of the eldership were
all at once terribly cast down and glanced timidly in one another’s
faces, when they met. Those who were hostile to the institution of
elders, as a novelty, held up their heads proudly. “There was no smell
of corruption from the late elder Varsonofy, but a sweet fragrance,”
they recalled malignantly. “But he gained that glory not because he was
an elder, but because he was a holy man.”

And this was followed by a shower of criticism and even blame of Father
Zossima. “His teaching was false; he taught that life is a great joy
and not a vale of tears,” said some of the more unreasonable. “He
followed the fashionable belief, he did not recognize material fire in
hell,” others, still more unreasonable, added. “He was not strict in
fasting, allowed himself sweet things, ate cherry jam with his tea,
ladies used to send it to him. Is it for a monk of strict rule to drink
tea?” could be heard among some of the envious. “He sat in pride,” the
most malignant declared vindictively; “he considered himself a saint
and he took it as his due when people knelt before him.” “He abused the
sacrament of confession,” the fiercest opponents of the institution of
elders added in a malicious whisper. And among these were some of the
oldest monks, strictest in their devotion, genuine ascetics, who had
kept silent during the life of the deceased elder, but now suddenly
unsealed their lips. And this was terrible, for their words had great
influence on young monks who were not yet firm in their convictions.
The monk from Obdorsk heard all this attentively, heaving deep sighs
and nodding his head. “Yes, clearly Father Ferapont was right in his
judgment yesterday,” and at that moment Father Ferapont himself made
his appearance, as though on purpose to increase the confusion.

I have mentioned already that he rarely left his wooden cell by the
apiary. He was seldom even seen at church and they overlooked this
neglect on the ground of his craziness, and did not keep him to the
rules binding on all the rest. But if the whole truth is to be told,
they hardly had a choice about it. For it would have been discreditable
to insist on burdening with the common regulations so great an ascetic,
who prayed day and night (he even dropped asleep on his knees). If they
had insisted, the monks would have said, “He is holier than all of us
and he follows a rule harder than ours. And if he does not go to
church, it’s because he knows when he ought to; he has his own rule.”
It was to avoid the chance of these sinful murmurs that Father Ferapont
was left in peace.

As every one was aware, Father Ferapont particularly disliked Father
Zossima. And now the news had reached him in his hut that “God’s
judgment is not the same as man’s,” and that something had happened
which was “in excess of nature.” It may well be supposed that among the
first to run to him with the news was the monk from Obdorsk, who had
visited him the evening before and left his cell terror-stricken.

I have mentioned above, that though Father Païssy, standing firm and
immovable reading the Gospel over the coffin, could not hear nor see
what was passing outside the cell, he gauged most of it correctly in
his heart, for he knew the men surrounding him, well. He was not shaken
by it, but awaited what would come next without fear, watching with
penetration and insight for the outcome of the general excitement.

Suddenly an extraordinary uproar in the passage in open defiance of
decorum burst on his ears. The door was flung open and Father Ferapont
appeared in the doorway. Behind him there could be seen accompanying
him a crowd of monks, together with many people from the town. They did
not, however, enter the cell, but stood at the bottom of the steps,
waiting to see what Father Ferapont would say or do. For they felt with
a certain awe, in spite of their audacity, that he had not come for
nothing. Standing in the doorway, Father Ferapont raised his arms, and
under his right arm the keen inquisitive little eyes of the monk from
Obdorsk peeped in. He alone, in his intense curiosity, could not resist
running up the steps after Father Ferapont. The others, on the
contrary, pressed farther back in sudden alarm when the door was
noisily flung open. Holding his hands aloft, Father Ferapont suddenly
roared:

“Casting out I cast out!” and, turning in all directions, he began at
once making the sign of the cross at each of the four walls and four
corners of the cell in succession. All who accompanied Father Ferapont
immediately understood his action. For they knew he always did this
wherever he went, and that he would not sit down or say a word, till he
had driven out the evil spirits.

“Satan, go hence! Satan, go hence!” he repeated at each sign of the
cross. “Casting out I cast out,” he roared again.

He was wearing his coarse gown girt with a rope. His bare chest,
covered with gray hair, could be seen under his hempen shirt. His feet
were bare. As soon as he began waving his arms, the cruel irons he wore
under his gown could be heard clanking.

Father Païssy paused in his reading, stepped forward and stood before
him waiting.

“What have you come for, worthy Father? Why do you offend against good
order? Why do you disturb the peace of the flock?” he said at last,
looking sternly at him.

“What have I come for? You ask why? What is your faith?” shouted Father
Ferapont crazily. “I’ve come here to drive out your visitors, the
unclean devils. I’ve come to see how many have gathered here while I
have been away. I want to sweep them out with a birch broom.”

“You cast out the evil spirit, but perhaps you are serving him
yourself,” Father Païssy went on fearlessly. “And who can say of
himself ‘I am holy’? Can you, Father?”

“I am unclean, not holy. I would not sit in an arm-chair and would not
have them bow down to me as an idol,” thundered Father Ferapont.
“Nowadays folk destroy the true faith. The dead man, your saint,” he
turned to the crowd, pointing with his finger to the coffin, “did not
believe in devils. He gave medicine to keep off the devils. And so they
have become as common as spiders in the corners. And now he has begun
to stink himself. In that we see a great sign from God.”

The incident he referred to was this. One of the monks was haunted in
his dreams and, later on, in waking moments, by visions of evil
spirits. When in the utmost terror he confided this to Father Zossima,
the elder had advised continual prayer and rigid fasting. But when that
was of no use, he advised him, while persisting in prayer and fasting,
to take a special medicine. Many persons were shocked at the time and
wagged their heads as they talked over it—and most of all Father
Ferapont, to whom some of the censorious had hastened to report this
“extraordinary” counsel on the part of the elder.

“Go away, Father!” said Father Païssy, in a commanding voice, “it’s not
for man to judge but for God. Perhaps we see here a ‘sign’ which
neither you, nor I, nor any one of us is able to comprehend. Go,
Father, and do not trouble the flock!” he repeated impressively.

“He did not keep the fasts according to the rule and therefore the sign
has come. That is clear and it’s a sin to hide it,” the fanatic,
carried away by a zeal that outstripped his reason, would not be
quieted. “He was seduced by sweetmeats, ladies brought them to him in
their pockets, he sipped tea, he worshiped his belly, filling it with
sweet things and his mind with haughty thoughts.... And for this he is
put to shame....”

“You speak lightly, Father.” Father Païssy, too, raised his voice. “I
admire your fasting and severities, but you speak lightly like some
frivolous youth, fickle and childish. Go away, Father, I command you!”
Father Païssy thundered in conclusion.

“I will go,” said Ferapont, seeming somewhat taken aback, but still as
bitter. “You learned men! You are so clever you look down upon my
humbleness. I came hither with little learning and here I have
forgotten what I did know, God Himself has preserved me in my weakness
from your subtlety.”

Father Païssy stood over him, waiting resolutely. Father Ferapont
paused and, suddenly leaning his cheek on his hand despondently,
pronounced in a sing-song voice, looking at the coffin of the dead
elder:

“To-morrow they will sing over him ‘Our Helper and Defender’—a splendid
anthem—and over me when I die all they’ll sing will be ‘What earthly
joy’—a little canticle,”[6] he added with tearful regret. “You are
proud and puffed up, this is a vain place!” he shouted suddenly like a
madman, and with a wave of his hand he turned quickly and quickly
descended the steps. The crowd awaiting him below wavered; some
followed him at once and some lingered, for the cell was still open,
and Father Païssy, following Father Ferapont on to the steps, stood
watching him. But the excited old fanatic was not completely silenced.
Walking twenty steps away, he suddenly turned towards the setting sun,
raised both his arms and, as though some one had cut him down, fell to
the ground with a loud scream.

“My God has conquered! Christ has conquered the setting sun!” he
shouted frantically, stretching up his hands to the sun, and falling
face downwards on the ground, he sobbed like a little child, shaken by
his tears and spreading out his arms on the ground. Then all rushed up
to him; there were exclamations and sympathetic sobs ... a kind of
frenzy seemed to take possession of them all.

“This is the one who is a saint! This is the one who is a holy man!”
some cried aloud, losing their fear. “This is he who should be an
elder,” others added malignantly.

“He wouldn’t be an elder ... he would refuse ... he wouldn’t serve a
cursed innovation ... he wouldn’t imitate their foolery,” other voices
chimed in at once. And it is hard to say how far they might have gone,
but at that moment the bell rang summoning them to service. All began
crossing themselves at once. Father Ferapont, too, got up and crossing
himself went back to his cell without looking round, still uttering
exclamations which were utterly incoherent. A few followed him, but the
greater number dispersed, hastening to service. Father Païssy let
Father Iosif read in his place and went down. The frantic outcries of
bigots could not shake him, but his heart was suddenly filled with
melancholy for some special reason and he felt that. He stood still and
suddenly wondered, “Why am I sad even to dejection?” and immediately
grasped with surprise that his sudden sadness was due to a very small
and special cause. In the crowd thronging at the entrance to the cell,
he had noticed Alyosha and he remembered that he had felt at once a
pang at heart on seeing him. “Can that boy mean so much to my heart
now?” he asked himself, wondering.

At that moment Alyosha passed him, hurrying away, but not in the
direction of the church. Their eyes met. Alyosha quickly turned away
his eyes and dropped them to the ground, and from the boy’s look alone,
Father Païssy guessed what a great change was taking place in him at
that moment.

“Have you, too, fallen into temptation?” cried Father Païssy. “Can you
be with those of little faith?” he added mournfully.

Alyosha stood still and gazed vaguely at Father Païssy, but quickly
turned his eyes away again and again looked on the ground. He stood
sideways and did not turn his face to Father Païssy, who watched him
attentively.

“Where are you hastening? The bell calls to service,” he asked again,
but again Alyosha gave no answer.

“Are you leaving the hermitage? What, without asking leave, without
asking a blessing?”

Alyosha suddenly gave a wry smile, cast a strange, very strange, look
at the Father to whom his former guide, the former sovereign of his
heart and mind, his beloved elder, had confided him as he lay dying.
And suddenly, still without speaking, waved his hand, as though not
caring even to be respectful, and with rapid steps walked towards the
gates away from the hermitage.

“You will come back again!” murmured Father Païssy, looking after him
with sorrowful surprise.




Chapter II.
A Critical Moment


Father Païssy, of course, was not wrong when he decided that his “dear
boy” would come back again. Perhaps indeed, to some extent, he
penetrated with insight into the true meaning of Alyosha’s spiritual
condition. Yet I must frankly own that it would be very difficult for
me to give a clear account of that strange, vague moment in the life of
the young hero I love so much. To Father Païssy’s sorrowful question,
“Are you too with those of little faith?” I could of course confidently
answer for Alyosha, “No, he is not with those of little faith. Quite
the contrary.” Indeed, all his trouble came from the fact that he was
of great faith. But still the trouble was there and was so agonizing
that even long afterwards Alyosha thought of that sorrowful day as one
of the bitterest and most fatal days of his life. If the question is
asked: “Could all his grief and disturbance have been only due to the
fact that his elder’s body had shown signs of premature decomposition
instead of at once performing miracles?” I must answer without beating
about the bush, “Yes, it certainly was.” I would only beg the reader
not to be in too great a hurry to laugh at my young hero’s pure heart.
I am far from intending to apologize for him or to justify his innocent
faith on the ground of his youth, or the little progress he had made in
his studies, or any such reason. I must declare, on the contrary, that
I have genuine respect for the qualities of his heart. No doubt a youth
who received impressions cautiously, whose love was lukewarm, and whose
mind was too prudent for his age and so of little value, such a young
man might, I admit, have avoided what happened to my hero. But in some
cases it is really more creditable to be carried away by an emotion,
however unreasonable, which springs from a great love, than to be
unmoved. And this is even truer in youth, for a young man who is always
sensible is to be suspected and is of little worth—that’s my opinion!

“But,” reasonable people will exclaim perhaps, “every young man cannot
believe in such a superstition and your hero is no model for others.”

To this I reply again, “Yes! my hero had faith, a faith holy and
steadfast, but still I am not going to apologize for him.”

Though I declared above, and perhaps too hastily, that I should not
explain or justify my hero, I see that some explanation is necessary
for the understanding of the rest of my story. Let me say then, it was
not a question of miracles. There was no frivolous and impatient
expectation of miracles in his mind. And Alyosha needed no miracles at
the time, for the triumph of some preconceived idea—oh, no, not at
all—what he saw before all was one figure—the figure of his beloved
elder, the figure of that holy man whom he revered with such adoration.
The fact is that all the love that lay concealed in his pure young
heart for every one and everything had, for the past year, been
concentrated—and perhaps wrongly so—on one being, his beloved elder. It
is true that being had for so long been accepted by him as his ideal,
that all his young strength and energy could not but turn towards that
ideal, even to the forgetting at the moment “of every one and
everything.” He remembered afterwards how, on that terrible day, he had
entirely forgotten his brother Dmitri, about whom he had been so
anxious and troubled the day before; he had forgotten, too, to take the
two hundred roubles to Ilusha’s father, though he had so warmly
intended to do so the preceding evening. But again it was not miracles
he needed but only “the higher justice” which had been in his belief
outraged by the blow that had so suddenly and cruelly wounded his
heart. And what does it signify that this “justice” looked for by
Alyosha inevitably took the shape of miracles to be wrought immediately
by the ashes of his adored teacher? Why, every one in the monastery
cherished the same thought and the same hope, even those whose
intellects Alyosha revered, Father Païssy himself, for instance. And so
Alyosha, untroubled by doubts, clothed his dreams too in the same form
as all the rest. And a whole year of life in the monastery had formed
the habit of this expectation in his heart. But it was justice,
justice, he thirsted for, not simply miracles.

And now the man who should, he believed, have been exalted above every
one in the whole world, that man, instead of receiving the glory that
was his due, was suddenly degraded and dishonored! What for? Who had
judged him? Who could have decreed this? Those were the questions that
wrung his inexperienced and virginal heart. He could not endure without
mortification, without resentment even, that the holiest of holy men
should have been exposed to the jeering and spiteful mockery of the
frivolous crowd so inferior to him. Even had there been no miracles,
had there been nothing marvelous to justify his hopes, why this
indignity, why this humiliation, why this premature decay, “in excess
of nature,” as the spiteful monks said? Why this “sign from heaven,”
which they so triumphantly acclaimed in company with Father Ferapont,
and why did they believe they had gained the right to acclaim it? Where
is the finger of Providence? Why did Providence hide its face “at the
most critical moment” (so Alyosha thought it), as though voluntarily
submitting to the blind, dumb, pitiless laws of nature?

That was why Alyosha’s heart was bleeding, and, of course, as I have
said already, the sting of it all was that the man he loved above
everything on earth should be put to shame and humiliated! This
murmuring may have been shallow and unreasonable in my hero, but I
repeat again for the third time—and am prepared to admit that it might
be difficult to defend my feeling—I am glad that my hero showed himself
not too reasonable at that moment, for any man of sense will always
come back to reason in time, but, if love does not gain the upper hand
in a boy’s heart at such an exceptional moment, when will it? I will
not, however, omit to mention something strange, which came for a time
to the surface of Alyosha’s mind at this fatal and obscure moment. This
new something was the harassing impression left by the conversation
with Ivan, which now persistently haunted Alyosha’s mind. At this
moment it haunted him. Oh, it was not that something of the
fundamental, elemental, so to speak, faith of his soul had been shaken.
He loved his God and believed in Him steadfastly, though he was
suddenly murmuring against Him. Yet a vague but tormenting and evil
impression left by his conversation with Ivan the day before, suddenly
revived again now in his soul and seemed forcing its way to the surface
of his consciousness.

It had begun to get dusk when Rakitin, crossing the pine copse from the
hermitage to the monastery, suddenly noticed Alyosha, lying face
downwards on the ground under a tree, not moving and apparently asleep.
He went up and called him by his name.

“You here, Alexey? Can you have—” he began wondering but broke off. He
had meant to say, “Can you have come to this?”

Alyosha did not look at him, but from a slight movement Rakitin at once
saw that he heard and understood him.

“What’s the matter?” he went on; but the surprise in his face gradually
passed into a smile that became more and more ironical.

“I say, I’ve been looking for you for the last two hours. You suddenly
disappeared. What are you about? What foolery is this? You might just
look at me...”

Alyosha raised his head, sat up and leaned his back against the tree.
He was not crying, but there was a look of suffering and irritability
in his face. He did not look at Rakitin, however, but looked away to
one side of him.

“Do you know your face is quite changed? There’s none of your famous
mildness to be seen in it. Are you angry with some one? Have they been
ill-treating you?”

“Let me alone,” said Alyosha suddenly, with a weary gesture of his
hand, still looking away from him.

“Oho! So that’s how we are feeling! So you can shout at people like
other mortals. That is a come-down from the angels. I say, Alyosha, you
have surprised me, do you hear? I mean it. It’s long since I’ve been
surprised at anything here. I always took you for an educated man....”

Alyosha at last looked at him, but vaguely, as though scarcely
understanding what he said.

“Can you really be so upset simply because your old man has begun to
stink? You don’t mean to say you seriously believed that he was going
to work miracles?” exclaimed Rakitin, genuinely surprised again.

“I believed, I believe, I want to believe, and I will believe, what
more do you want?” cried Alyosha irritably.

“Nothing at all, my boy. Damn it all! why, no schoolboy of thirteen
believes in that now. But there.... So now you are in a temper with
your God, you are rebelling against Him; He hasn’t given promotion, He
hasn’t bestowed the order of merit! Eh, you are a set!”

Alyosha gazed a long while with his eyes half closed at Rakitin, and
there was a sudden gleam in his eyes ... but not of anger with Rakitin.

“I am not rebelling against my God; I simply ‘don’t accept His world.’” 
Alyosha suddenly smiled a forced smile.

“How do you mean, you don’t accept the world?” Rakitin thought a moment
over his answer. “What idiocy is this?”

Alyosha did not answer.

“Come, enough nonsense, now to business. Have you had anything to eat
to-day?”

“I don’t remember.... I think I have.”

“You need keeping up, to judge by your face. It makes one sorry to look
at you. You didn’t sleep all night either, I hear, you had a meeting in
there. And then all this bobbery afterwards. Most likely you’ve had
nothing to eat but a mouthful of holy bread. I’ve got some sausage in
my pocket; I’ve brought it from the town in case of need, only you
won’t eat sausage....”

“Give me some.”

“I say! You are going it! Why, it’s a regular mutiny, with barricades!
Well, my boy, we must make the most of it. Come to my place.... I
shouldn’t mind a drop of vodka myself, I am tired to death. Vodka is
going too far for you, I suppose ... or would you like some?”

“Give me some vodka too.”

“Hullo! You surprise me, brother!” Rakitin looked at him in amazement.
“Well, one way or another, vodka or sausage, this is a jolly fine
chance and mustn’t be missed. Come along.”

Alyosha got up in silence and followed Rakitin.

“If your little brother Ivan could see this—wouldn’t he be surprised!
By the way, your brother Ivan set off to Moscow this morning, did you
know?”

“Yes,” answered Alyosha listlessly, and suddenly the image of his
brother Dmitri rose before his mind. But only for a minute, and though
it reminded him of something that must not be put off for a moment,
some duty, some terrible obligation, even that reminder made no
impression on him, did not reach his heart and instantly faded out of
his mind and was forgotten. But, a long while afterwards, Alyosha
remembered this.

“Your brother Ivan declared once that I was a ‘liberal booby with no
talents whatsoever.’ Once you, too, could not resist letting me know I
was ‘dishonorable.’ Well! I should like to see what your talents and
sense of honor will do for you now.” This phrase Rakitin finished to
himself in a whisper.

“Listen!” he said aloud, “let’s go by the path beyond the monastery
straight to the town. Hm! I ought to go to Madame Hohlakov’s by the
way. Only fancy, I’ve written to tell her everything that happened, and
would you believe it, she answered me instantly in pencil (the lady has
a passion for writing notes) that ‘she would never have expected _such
conduct_ from a man of such a reverend character as Father Zossima.’
That was her very word: ‘conduct.’ She is angry too. Eh, you are a set!
Stay!” he cried suddenly again. He suddenly stopped and taking Alyosha
by the shoulder made him stop too.

“Do you know, Alyosha,” he peeped inquisitively into his eyes, absorbed
in a sudden new thought which had dawned on him, and though he was
laughing outwardly he was evidently afraid to utter that new idea
aloud, so difficult he still found it to believe in the strange and
unexpected mood in which he now saw Alyosha. “Alyosha, do you know
where we had better go?” he brought out at last timidly, and
insinuatingly.

“I don’t care ... where you like.”

“Let’s go to Grushenka, eh? Will you come?” pronounced Rakitin at last,
trembling with timid suspense.

“Let’s go to Grushenka,” Alyosha answered calmly, at once, and this
prompt and calm agreement was such a surprise to Rakitin that he almost
started back.

“Well! I say!” he cried in amazement, but seizing Alyosha firmly by the
arm he led him along the path, still dreading that he would change his
mind.

They walked along in silence, Rakitin was positively afraid to talk.

“And how glad she will be, how delighted!” he muttered, but lapsed into
silence again. And indeed it was not to please Grushenka he was taking
Alyosha to her. He was a practical person and never undertook anything
without a prospect of gain for himself. His object in this case was
twofold, first a revengeful desire to see “the downfall of the
righteous,” and Alyosha’s fall “from the saints to the sinners,” over
which he was already gloating in his imagination, and in the second
place he had in view a certain material gain for himself, of which more
will be said later.

“So the critical moment has come,” he thought to himself with spiteful
glee, “and we shall catch it on the hop, for it’s just what we want.”




Chapter III.
An Onion


Grushenka lived in the busiest part of the town, near the cathedral
square, in a small wooden lodge in the courtyard belonging to the house
of the widow Morozov. The house was a large stone building of two
stories, old and very ugly. The widow led a secluded life with her two
unmarried nieces, who were also elderly women. She had no need to let
her lodge, but every one knew that she had taken in Grushenka as a
lodger, four years before, solely to please her kinsman, the merchant
Samsonov, who was known to be the girl’s protector. It was said that
the jealous old man’s object in placing his “favorite” with the widow
Morozov was that the old woman should keep a sharp eye on her new
lodger’s conduct. But this sharp eye soon proved to be unnecessary, and
in the end the widow Morozov seldom met Grushenka and did not worry her
by looking after her in any way. It is true that four years had passed
since the old man had brought the slim, delicate, shy, timid, dreamy,
and sad girl of eighteen from the chief town of the province, and much
had happened since then. Little was known of the girl’s history in the
town and that little was vague. Nothing more had been learnt during the
last four years, even after many persons had become interested in the
beautiful young woman into whom Agrafena Alexandrovna had meanwhile
developed. There were rumors that she had been at seventeen betrayed by
some one, some sort of officer, and immediately afterwards abandoned by
him. The officer had gone away and afterwards married, while Grushenka
had been left in poverty and disgrace. It was said, however, that
though Grushenka had been raised from destitution by the old man,
Samsonov, she came of a respectable family belonging to the clerical
class, that she was the daughter of a deacon or something of the sort.

And now after four years the sensitive, injured and pathetic little
orphan had become a plump, rosy beauty of the Russian type, a woman of
bold and determined character, proud and insolent. She had a good head
for business, was acquisitive, saving and careful, and by fair means or
foul had succeeded, it was said, in amassing a little fortune. There
was only one point on which all were agreed. Grushenka was not easily
to be approached and except her aged protector there had not been one
man who could boast of her favors during those four years. It was a
positive fact, for there had been a good many, especially during the
last two years, who had attempted to obtain those favors. But all their
efforts had been in vain and some of these suitors had been forced to
beat an undignified and even comic retreat, owing to the firm and
ironical resistance they met from the strong-willed young person. It
was known, too, that the young person had, especially of late, been
given to what is called “speculation,” and that she had shown marked
abilities in that direction, so that many people began to say that she
was no better than a Jew. It was not that she lent money on interest,
but it was known, for instance, that she had for some time past, in
partnership with old Karamazov, actually invested in the purchase of
bad debts for a trifle, a tenth of their nominal value, and afterwards
had made out of them ten times their value.

The old widower Samsonov, a man of large fortune, was stingy and
merciless. He tyrannized over his grown-up sons, but, for the last year
during which he had been ill and lost the use of his swollen legs, he
had fallen greatly under the influence of his protégée, whom he had at
first kept strictly and in humble surroundings, “on Lenten fare,” as
the wits said at the time. But Grushenka had succeeded in emancipating
herself, while she established in him a boundless belief in her
fidelity. The old man, now long since dead, had had a large business in
his day and was also a noteworthy character, miserly and hard as flint.
Though Grushenka’s hold upon him was so strong that he could not live
without her (it had been so especially for the last two years), he did
not settle any considerable fortune on her and would not have been
moved to do so, if she had threatened to leave him. But he had
presented her with a small sum, and even that was a surprise to every
one when it became known.

“You are a wench with brains,” he said to her, when he gave her eight
thousand roubles, “and you must look after yourself, but let me tell
you that except your yearly allowance as before, you’ll get nothing
more from me to the day of my death, and I’ll leave you nothing in my
will either.”

And he kept his word; he died and left everything to his sons, whom,
with their wives and children, he had treated all his life as servants.
Grushenka was not even mentioned in his will. All this became known
afterwards. He helped Grushenka with his advice to increase her capital
and put business in her way.

When Fyodor Pavlovitch, who first came into contact with Grushenka over
a piece of speculation, ended to his own surprise by falling madly in
love with her, old Samsonov, gravely ill as he was, was immensely
amused. It is remarkable that throughout their whole acquaintance
Grushenka was absolutely and spontaneously open with the old man, and
he seems to have been the only person in the world with whom she was
so. Of late, when Dmitri too had come on the scene with his love, the
old man left off laughing. On the contrary, he once gave Grushenka a
stern and earnest piece of advice.

“If you have to choose between the two, father or son, you’d better
choose the old man, if only you make sure the old scoundrel will marry
you and settle some fortune on you beforehand. But don’t keep on with
the captain, you’ll get no good out of that.”

These were the very words of the old profligate, who felt already that
his death was not far off and who actually died five months later.

I will note, too, in passing, that although many in our town knew of
the grotesque and monstrous rivalry of the Karamazovs, father and son,
the object of which was Grushenka, scarcely any one understood what
really underlay her attitude to both of them. Even Grushenka’s two
servants (after the catastrophe of which we will speak later) testified
in court that she received Dmitri Fyodorovitch simply from fear because
“he threatened to murder her.” These servants were an old cook,
invalidish and almost deaf, who came from Grushenka’s old home, and her
granddaughter, a smart young girl of twenty, who performed the duties
of a maid. Grushenka lived very economically and her surroundings were
anything but luxurious. Her lodge consisted of three rooms furnished
with mahogany furniture in the fashion of 1820, belonging to her
landlady.

It was quite dark when Rakitin and Alyosha entered her rooms, yet they
were not lighted up. Grushenka was lying down in her drawing-room on
the big, hard, clumsy sofa, with a mahogany back. The sofa was covered
with shabby and ragged leather. Under her head she had two white down
pillows taken from her bed. She was lying stretched out motionless on
her back with her hands behind her head. She was dressed as though
expecting some one, in a black silk dress, with a dainty lace fichu on
her head, which was very becoming. Over her shoulders was thrown a lace
shawl pinned with a massive gold brooch. She certainly was expecting
some one. She lay as though impatient and weary, her face rather pale
and her lips and eyes hot, restlessly tapping the arm of the sofa with
the tip of her right foot. The appearance of Rakitin and Alyosha caused
a slight excitement. From the hall they could hear Grushenka leap up
from the sofa and cry out in a frightened voice, “Who’s there?” But the
maid met the visitors and at once called back to her mistress.

“It’s not he, it’s nothing, only other visitors.”

“What can be the matter?” muttered Rakitin, leading Alyosha into the
drawing-room.

Grushenka was standing by the sofa as though still alarmed. A thick
coil of her dark brown hair escaped from its lace covering and fell on
her right shoulder, but she did not notice it and did not put it back
till she had gazed at her visitors and recognized them.

“Ah, it’s you, Rakitin? You quite frightened me. Whom have you brought?
Who is this with you? Good heavens, you have brought him!” she
exclaimed, recognizing Alyosha.

“Do send for candles!” said Rakitin, with the free-and-easy air of a
most intimate friend, who is privileged to give orders in the house.

“Candles ... of course, candles.... Fenya, fetch him a candle.... Well,
you have chosen a moment to bring him!” she exclaimed again, nodding
towards Alyosha, and turning to the looking-glass she began quickly
fastening up her hair with both hands. She seemed displeased.

“Haven’t I managed to please you?” asked Rakitin, instantly almost
offended.

“You frightened me, Rakitin, that’s what it is.” Grushenka turned with
a smile to Alyosha. “Don’t be afraid of me, my dear Alyosha, you cannot
think how glad I am to see you, my unexpected visitor. But you
frightened me, Rakitin, I thought it was Mitya breaking in. You see, I
deceived him just now, I made him promise to believe me and I told him
a lie. I told him that I was going to spend the evening with my old
man, Kuzma Kuzmitch, and should be there till late counting up his
money. I always spend one whole evening a week with him making up his
accounts. We lock ourselves in and he counts on the reckoning beads
while I sit and put things down in the book. I am the only person he
trusts. Mitya believes that I am there, but I came back and have been
sitting locked in here, expecting some news. How was it Fenya let you
in? Fenya, Fenya, run out to the gate, open it and look about whether
the captain is to be seen! Perhaps he is hiding and spying, I am
dreadfully frightened.”

“There’s no one there, Agrafena Alexandrovna, I’ve just looked out, I
keep running to peep through the crack, I am in fear and trembling
myself.”

“Are the shutters fastened, Fenya? And we must draw the curtains—that’s
better!” She drew the heavy curtains herself. “He’d rush in at once if
he saw a light. I am afraid of your brother Mitya to-day, Alyosha.”

Grushenka spoke aloud, and, though she was alarmed, she seemed very
happy about something.

“Why are you so afraid of Mitya to-day?” inquired Rakitin. “I should
have thought you were not timid with him, you’d twist him round your
little finger.”

“I tell you, I am expecting news, priceless news, so I don’t want Mitya
at all. And he didn’t believe, I feel he didn’t, that I should stay at
Kuzma Kuzmitch’s. He must be in his ambush now, behind Fyodor
Pavlovitch’s, in the garden, watching for me. And if he’s there, he
won’t come here, so much the better! But I really have been to Kuzma
Kuzmitch’s, Mitya escorted me there. I told him I should stay there
till midnight, and I asked him to be sure to come at midnight to fetch
me home. He went away and I sat ten minutes with Kuzma Kuzmitch and
came back here again. Ugh, I was afraid, I ran for fear of meeting
him.”

“And why are you so dressed up? What a curious cap you’ve got on!”

“How curious you are yourself, Rakitin! I tell you, I am expecting a
message. If the message comes, I shall fly, I shall gallop away and you
will see no more of me. That’s why I am dressed up, so as to be ready.”

“And where are you flying to?”

“If you know too much, you’ll get old too soon.”

“Upon my word! You are highly delighted ... I’ve never seen you like
this before. You are dressed up as if you were going to a ball.”
Rakitin looked her up and down.

“Much you know about balls.”

“And do you know much about them?”

“I have seen a ball. The year before last, Kuzma Kuzmitch’s son was
married and I looked on from the gallery. Do you suppose I want to be
talking to you, Rakitin, while a prince like this is standing here.
Such a visitor! Alyosha, my dear boy, I gaze at you and can’t believe
my eyes. Good heavens, can you have come here to see me! To tell you
the truth, I never had a thought of seeing you and I didn’t think that
you would ever come and see me. Though this is not the moment now, I am
awfully glad to see you. Sit down on the sofa, here, that’s right, my
bright young moon. I really can’t take it in even now.... Eh, Rakitin,
if only you had brought him yesterday or the day before! But I am glad
as it is! Perhaps it’s better he has come now, at such a moment, and
not the day before yesterday.”

She gayly sat down beside Alyosha on the sofa, looking at him with
positive delight. And she really was glad, she was not lying when she
said so. Her eyes glowed, her lips laughed, but it was a good-hearted
merry laugh. Alyosha had not expected to see such a kind expression in
her face.... He had hardly met her till the day before, he had formed
an alarming idea of her, and had been horribly distressed the day
before by the spiteful and treacherous trick she had played on Katerina
Ivanovna. He was greatly surprised to find her now altogether different
from what he had expected. And, crushed as he was by his own sorrow,
his eyes involuntarily rested on her with attention. Her whole manner
seemed changed for the better since yesterday, there was scarcely any
trace of that mawkish sweetness in her speech, of that voluptuous
softness in her movements. Everything was simple and good-natured, her
gestures were rapid, direct, confiding, but she was greatly excited.

“Dear me, how everything comes together to-day!” she chattered on
again. “And why I am so glad to see you, Alyosha, I couldn’t say
myself! If you ask me, I couldn’t tell you.”

“Come, don’t you know why you’re glad?” said Rakitin, grinning. “You
used to be always pestering me to bring him, you’d some object, I
suppose.”

“I had a different object once, but now that’s over, this is not the
moment. I say, I want you to have something nice. I am so good-natured
now. You sit down, too, Rakitin; why are you standing? You’ve sat down
already? There’s no fear of Rakitin’s forgetting to look after himself.
Look, Alyosha, he’s sitting there opposite us, so offended that I
didn’t ask him to sit down before you. Ugh, Rakitin is such a one to
take offense!” laughed Grushenka. “Don’t be angry, Rakitin, I’m kind
to-day. Why are you so depressed, Alyosha? Are you afraid of me?” She
peeped into his eyes with merry mockery.

“He’s sad. The promotion has not been given,” boomed Rakitin.

“What promotion?”

“His elder stinks.”

“What? You are talking some nonsense, you want to say something nasty.
Be quiet, you stupid! Let me sit on your knee, Alyosha, like this.” She
suddenly skipped forward and jumped, laughing, on his knee, like a
nestling kitten, with her right arm about his neck. “I’ll cheer you up,
my pious boy. Yes, really, will you let me sit on your knee? You won’t
be angry? If you tell me, I’ll get off?”

Alyosha did not speak. He sat afraid to move, he heard her words, “If
you tell me, I’ll get off,” but he did not answer. But there was
nothing in his heart such as Rakitin, for instance, watching him
malignantly from his corner, might have expected or fancied. The great
grief in his heart swallowed up every sensation that might have been
aroused, and, if only he could have thought clearly at that moment, he
would have realized that he had now the strongest armor to protect him
from every lust and temptation. Yet in spite of the vague
irresponsiveness of his spiritual condition and the sorrow that
overwhelmed him, he could not help wondering at a new and strange
sensation in his heart. This woman, this “dreadful” woman, had no
terror for him now, none of that terror that had stirred in his soul at
any passing thought of woman. On the contrary, this woman, dreaded
above all women, sitting now on his knee, holding him in her arms,
aroused in him now a quite different, unexpected, peculiar feeling, a
feeling of the intensest and purest interest without a trace of fear,
of his former terror. That was what instinctively surprised him.

“You’ve talked nonsense enough,” cried Rakitin, “you’d much better give
us some champagne. You owe it me, you know you do!”

“Yes, I really do. Do you know, Alyosha, I promised him champagne on
the top of everything, if he’d bring you? I’ll have some too! Fenya,
Fenya, bring us the bottle Mitya left! Look sharp! Though I am so
stingy, I’ll stand a bottle, not for you, Rakitin, you’re a toadstool,
but he is a falcon! And though my heart is full of something very
different, so be it, I’ll drink with you. I long for some dissipation.”

“But what is the matter with you? And what is this message, may I ask,
or is it a secret?” Rakitin put in inquisitively, doing his best to
pretend not to notice the snubs that were being continually aimed at
him.

“Ech, it’s not a secret, and you know it, too,” Grushenka said, in a
voice suddenly anxious, turning her head towards Rakitin, and drawing a
little away from Alyosha, though she still sat on his knee with her arm
round his neck. “My officer is coming, Rakitin, my officer is coming.”

“I heard he was coming, but is he so near?”

“He is at Mokroe now; he’ll send a messenger from there, so he wrote; I
got a letter from him to-day. I am expecting the messenger every
minute.”

“You don’t say so! Why at Mokroe?”

“That’s a long story, I’ve told you enough.”

“Mitya’ll be up to something now—I say! Does he know or doesn’t he?”

“He know! Of course he doesn’t. If he knew, there would be murder. But
I am not afraid of that now, I am not afraid of his knife. Be quiet,
Rakitin, don’t remind me of Dmitri Fyodorovitch, he has bruised my
heart. And I don’t want to think of that at this moment. I can think of
Alyosha here, I can look at Alyosha ... smile at me, dear, cheer up,
smile at my foolishness, at my pleasure.... Ah, he’s smiling, he’s
smiling! How kindly he looks at me! And you know, Alyosha, I’ve been
thinking all this time you were angry with me, because of the day
before yesterday, because of that young lady. I was a cur, that’s the
truth.... But it’s a good thing it happened so. It was a horrid thing,
but a good thing too.” Grushenka smiled dreamily and a little cruel
line showed in her smile. “Mitya told me that she screamed out that I
‘ought to be flogged.’ I did insult her dreadfully. She sent for me,
she wanted to make a conquest of me, to win me over with her
chocolate.... No, it’s a good thing it did end like that.” She smiled
again. “But I am still afraid of your being angry.”

“Yes, that’s really true,” Rakitin put in suddenly with genuine
surprise. “Alyosha, she is really afraid of a chicken like you.”

“He is a chicken to you, Rakitin ... because you’ve no conscience,
that’s what it is! You see, I love him with all my soul, that’s how it
is! Alyosha, do you believe I love you with all my soul?”

“Ah, you shameless woman! She is making you a declaration, Alexey!”

“Well, what of it, I love him!”

“And what about your officer? And the priceless message from Mokroe?”

“That is quite different.”

“That’s a woman’s way of looking at it!”

“Don’t you make me angry, Rakitin.” Grushenka caught him up hotly.
“This is quite different. I love Alyosha in a different way. It’s true,
Alyosha, I had sly designs on you before. For I am a horrid, violent
creature. But at other times I’ve looked upon you, Alyosha, as my
conscience. I’ve kept thinking ‘how any one like that must despise a
nasty thing like me.’ I thought that the day before yesterday, as I ran
home from the young lady’s. I have thought of you a long time in that
way, Alyosha, and Mitya knows, I’ve talked to him about it. Mitya
understands. Would you believe it, I sometimes look at you and feel
ashamed, utterly ashamed of myself.... And how, and since when, I began
to think about you like that, I can’t say, I don’t remember....”

Fenya came in and put a tray with an uncorked bottle and three glasses
of champagne on the table.

“Here’s the champagne!” cried Rakitin. “You’re excited, Agrafena
Alexandrovna, and not yourself. When you’ve had a glass of champagne,
you’ll be ready to dance. Eh, they can’t even do that properly,” he
added, looking at the bottle. “The old woman’s poured it out in the
kitchen and the bottle’s been brought in warm and without a cork. Well,
let me have some, anyway.”

He went up to the table, took a glass, emptied it at one gulp and
poured himself out another.

“One doesn’t often stumble upon champagne,” he said, licking his lips.
“Now, Alyosha, take a glass, show what you can do! What shall we drink
to? The gates of paradise? Take a glass, Grushenka, you drink to the
gates of paradise, too.”

“What gates of paradise?”

She took a glass, Alyosha took his, tasted it and put it back.

“No, I’d better not,” he smiled gently.

“And you bragged!” cried Rakitin.

“Well, if so, I won’t either,” chimed in Grushenka, “I really don’t
want any. You can drink the whole bottle alone, Rakitin. If Alyosha has
some, I will.”

“What touching sentimentality!” said Rakitin tauntingly; “and she’s
sitting on his knee, too! He’s got something to grieve over, but what’s
the matter with you? He is rebelling against his God and ready to eat
sausage....”

“How so?”

“His elder died to-day, Father Zossima, the saint.”

“So Father Zossima is dead,” cried Grushenka. “Good God, I did not
know!” She crossed herself devoutly. “Goodness, what have I been doing,
sitting on his knee like this at such a moment!” She started up as
though in dismay, instantly slipped off his knee and sat down on the
sofa.

Alyosha bent a long wondering look upon her and a light seemed to dawn
in his face.

“Rakitin,” he said suddenly, in a firm and loud voice; “don’t taunt me
with having rebelled against God. I don’t want to feel angry with you,
so you must be kinder, too, I’ve lost a treasure such as you have never
had, and you cannot judge me now. You had much better look at her—do
you see how she has pity on me? I came here to find a wicked soul—I
felt drawn to evil because I was base and evil myself, and I’ve found a
true sister, I have found a treasure—a loving heart. She had pity on me
just now.... Agrafena Alexandrovna, I am speaking of you. You’ve raised
my soul from the depths.”

Alyosha’s lips were quivering and he caught his breath.

“She has saved you, it seems,” laughed Rakitin spitefully. “And she
meant to get you in her clutches, do you realize that?”

“Stay, Rakitin.” Grushenka jumped up. “Hush, both of you. Now I’ll tell
you all about it. Hush, Alyosha, your words make me ashamed, for I am
bad and not good—that’s what I am. And you hush, Rakitin, because you
are telling lies. I had the low idea of trying to get him in my
clutches, but now you are lying, now it’s all different. And don’t let
me hear anything more from you, Rakitin.”

All this Grushenka said with extreme emotion.

“They are both crazy,” said Rakitin, looking at them with amazement. “I
feel as though I were in a madhouse. They’re both getting so feeble
they’ll begin crying in a minute.”

“I shall begin to cry, I shall,” repeated Grushenka. “He called me his
sister and I shall never forget that. Only let me tell you, Rakitin,
though I am bad, I did give away an onion.”

“An onion? Hang it all, you really are crazy.”

Rakitin wondered at their enthusiasm. He was aggrieved and annoyed,
though he might have reflected that each of them was just passing
through a spiritual crisis such as does not come often in a lifetime.
But though Rakitin was very sensitive about everything that concerned
himself, he was very obtuse as regards the feelings and sensations of
others—partly from his youth and inexperience, partly from his intense
egoism.

“You see, Alyosha,” Grushenka turned to him with a nervous laugh. “I
was boasting when I told Rakitin I had given away an onion, but it’s
not to boast I tell you about it. It’s only a story, but it’s a nice
story. I used to hear it when I was a child from Matryona, my cook, who
is still with me. It’s like this. Once upon a time there was a peasant
woman and a very wicked woman she was. And she died and did not leave a
single good deed behind. The devils caught her and plunged her into the
lake of fire. So her guardian angel stood and wondered what good deed
of hers he could remember to tell to God; ‘She once pulled up an onion
in her garden,’ said he, ‘and gave it to a beggar woman.’ And God
answered: ‘You take that onion then, hold it out to her in the lake,
and let her take hold and be pulled out. And if you can pull her out of
the lake, let her come to Paradise, but if the onion breaks, then the
woman must stay where she is.’ The angel ran to the woman and held out
the onion to her. ‘Come,’ said he, ‘catch hold and I’ll pull you out.’
And he began cautiously pulling her out. He had just pulled her right
out, when the other sinners in the lake, seeing how she was being drawn
out, began catching hold of her so as to be pulled out with her. But
she was a very wicked woman and she began kicking them. ‘I’m to be
pulled out, not you. It’s my onion, not yours.’ As soon as she said
that, the onion broke. And the woman fell into the lake and she is
burning there to this day. So the angel wept and went away. So that’s
the story, Alyosha; I know it by heart, for I am that wicked woman
myself. I boasted to Rakitin that I had given away an onion, but to you
I’ll say: ‘I’ve done nothing but give away one onion all my life,
that’s the only good deed I’ve done.’ So don’t praise me, Alyosha,
don’t think me good, I am bad, I am a wicked woman and you make me
ashamed if you praise me. Eh, I must confess everything. Listen,
Alyosha. I was so anxious to get hold of you that I promised Rakitin
twenty-five roubles if he would bring you to me. Stay, Rakitin, wait!”

She went with rapid steps to the table, opened a drawer, pulled out a
purse and took from it a twenty-five rouble note.

“What nonsense! What nonsense!” cried Rakitin, disconcerted.

“Take it. Rakitin, I owe it you, there’s no fear of your refusing it,
you asked for it yourself.” And she threw the note to him.

“Likely I should refuse it,” boomed Rakitin, obviously abashed, but
carrying off his confusion with a swagger. “That will come in very
handy; fools are made for wise men’s profit.”

“And now hold your tongue, Rakitin, what I am going to say now is not
for your ears. Sit down in that corner and keep quiet. You don’t like
us, so hold your tongue.”

“What should I like you for?” Rakitin snarled, not concealing his 
ill-humor. He put the twenty-five rouble note in his pocket and he felt
ashamed at Alyosha’s seeing it. He had reckoned on receiving his
payment later, without Alyosha’s knowing of it, and now, feeling
ashamed, he lost his temper. Till that moment he had thought it
discreet not to contradict Grushenka too flatly in spite of her
snubbing, since he had something to get out of her. But now he, too,
was angry:

“One loves people for some reason, but what have either of you done for
me?”

“You should love people without a reason, as Alyosha does.”

“How does he love you? How has he shown it, that you make such a fuss
about it?”

Grushenka was standing in the middle of the room; she spoke with heat
and there were hysterical notes in her voice.

“Hush, Rakitin, you know nothing about us! And don’t dare to speak to
me like that again. How dare you be so familiar! Sit in that corner and
be quiet, as though you were my footman! And now, Alyosha, I’ll tell
you the whole truth, that you may see what a wretch I am! I am not
talking to Rakitin, but to you. I wanted to ruin you, Alyosha, that’s
the holy truth; I quite meant to. I wanted to so much, that I bribed
Rakitin to bring you. And why did I want to do such a thing? You knew
nothing about it, Alyosha, you turned away from me; if you passed me,
you dropped your eyes. And I’ve looked at you a hundred times before
to-day; I began asking every one about you. Your face haunted my heart.
‘He despises me,’ I thought; ‘he won’t even look at me.’ And I felt it
so much at last that I wondered at myself for being so frightened of a
boy. I’ll get him in my clutches and laugh at him. I was full of spite
and anger. Would you believe it, nobody here dares talk or think of
coming to Agrafena Alexandrovna with any evil purpose. Old Kuzma is the
only man I have anything to do with here; I was bound and sold to him;
Satan brought us together, but there has been no one else. But looking
at you, I thought, I’ll get him in my clutches and laugh at him. You
see what a spiteful cur I am, and you called me your sister! And now
that man who wronged me has come; I sit here waiting for a message from
him. And do you know what that man has been to me? Five years ago, when
Kuzma brought me here, I used to shut myself up, that no one might have
sight or sound of me. I was a silly slip of a girl; I used to sit here
sobbing; I used to lie awake all night, thinking: ‘Where is he now, the
man who wronged me? He is laughing at me with another woman, most
likely. If only I could see him, if I could meet him again, I’d pay him
out, I’d pay him out!’ At night I used to lie sobbing into my pillow in
the dark, and I used to brood over it; I used to tear my heart on
purpose and gloat over my anger. ‘I’ll pay him out, I’ll pay him out!’
That’s what I used to cry out in the dark. And when I suddenly thought
that I should really do nothing to him, and that he was laughing at me
then, or perhaps had utterly forgotten me, I would fling myself on the
floor, melt into helpless tears, and lie there shaking till dawn. In
the morning I would get up more spiteful than a dog, ready to tear the
whole world to pieces. And then what do you think? I began saving
money, I became hard-hearted, grew stout—grew wiser, would you say? No,
no one in the whole world sees it, no one knows it, but when night
comes on, I sometimes lie as I did five years ago, when I was a silly
girl, clenching my teeth and crying all night, thinking, ‘I’ll pay him
out, I’ll pay him out!’ Do you hear? Well then, now you understand me.
A month ago a letter came to me—he was coming, he was a widower, he
wanted to see me. It took my breath away; then I suddenly thought: ‘If
he comes and whistles to call me, I shall creep back to him like a
beaten dog.’ I couldn’t believe myself. Am I so abject? Shall I run to
him or not? And I’ve been in such a rage with myself all this month
that I am worse than I was five years ago. Do you see now, Alyosha,
what a violent, vindictive creature I am? I have shown you the whole
truth! I played with Mitya to keep me from running to that other. Hush,
Rakitin, it’s not for you to judge me, I am not speaking to you. Before
you came in, I was lying here waiting, brooding, deciding my whole
future life, and you can never know what was in my heart. Yes, Alyosha,
tell your young lady not to be angry with me for what happened the day
before yesterday.... Nobody in the whole world knows what I am going
through now, and no one ever can know.... For perhaps I shall take a
knife with me to-day, I can’t make up my mind ...”

And at this “tragic” phrase Grushenka broke down, hid her face in her
hands, flung herself on the sofa pillows, and sobbed like a little
child.

Alyosha got up and went to Rakitin.

“Misha,” he said, “don’t be angry. She wounded you, but don’t be angry.
You heard what she said just now? You mustn’t ask too much of human
endurance, one must be merciful.”

Alyosha said this at the instinctive prompting of his heart. He felt
obliged to speak and he turned to Rakitin. If Rakitin had not been
there, he would have spoken to the air. But Rakitin looked at him
ironically and Alyosha stopped short.

“You were so primed up with your elder’s teaching last night that now
you have to let it off on me, Alexey, man of God!” said Rakitin, with a
smile of hatred.

“Don’t laugh, Rakitin, don’t smile, don’t talk of the dead—he was
better than any one in the world!” cried Alyosha, with tears in his
voice. “I didn’t speak to you as a judge but as the lowest of the
judged. What am I beside her? I came here seeking my ruin, and said to
myself, ‘What does it matter?’ in my cowardliness, but she, after five
years in torment, as soon as any one says a word from the heart to
her—it makes her forget everything, forgive everything, in her tears!
The man who has wronged her has come back, he sends for her and she
forgives him everything, and hastens joyfully to meet him and she won’t
take a knife with her. She won’t! No, I am not like that. I don’t know
whether you are, Misha, but I am not like that. It’s a lesson to me....
She is more loving than we.... Have you heard her speak before of what
she has just told us? No, you haven’t; if you had, you’d have
understood her long ago ... and the person insulted the day before
yesterday must forgive her, too! She will, when she knows ... and she
shall know.... This soul is not yet at peace with itself, one must be
tender with it ... there may be a treasure in that soul....”

Alyosha stopped, because he caught his breath. In spite of his
ill-humor Rakitin looked at him with astonishment. He had never
expected such a tirade from the gentle Alyosha.

“She’s found some one to plead her cause! Why, are you in love with
her? Agrafena Alexandrovna, our monk’s really in love with you, you’ve
made a conquest!” he cried, with a coarse laugh.

Grushenka lifted her head from the pillow and looked at Alyosha with a
tender smile shining on her tear-stained face.

“Let him alone, Alyosha, my cherub; you see what he is, he is not a
person for you to speak to. Mihail Osipovitch,” she turned to Rakitin,
“I meant to beg your pardon for being rude to you, but now I don’t want
to. Alyosha, come to me, sit down here.” She beckoned to him with a
happy smile. “That’s right, sit here. Tell me,” she shook him by the
hand and peeped into his face, smiling, “tell me, do I love that man or
not? the man who wronged me, do I love him or not? Before you came, I
lay here in the dark, asking my heart whether I loved him. Decide for
me, Alyosha, the time has come, it shall be as you say. Am I to forgive
him or not?”

“But you have forgiven him already,” said Alyosha, smiling.

“Yes, I really have forgiven him,” Grushenka murmured thoughtfully.
“What an abject heart! To my abject heart!” She snatched up a glass
from the table, emptied it at a gulp, lifted it in the air and flung it
on the floor. The glass broke with a crash. A little cruel line came
into her smile.

“Perhaps I haven’t forgiven him, though,” she said, with a sort of
menace in her voice, and she dropped her eyes to the ground as though
she were talking to herself. “Perhaps my heart is only getting ready to
forgive. I shall struggle with my heart. You see, Alyosha, I’ve grown
to love my tears in these five years.... Perhaps I only love my
resentment, not him ...”

“Well, I shouldn’t care to be in his shoes,” hissed Rakitin.

“Well, you won’t be, Rakitin, you’ll never be in his shoes. You shall
black my shoes, Rakitin, that’s the place you are fit for. You’ll never
get a woman like me ... and he won’t either, perhaps ...”

“Won’t he? Then why are you dressed up like that?” said Rakitin, with a
venomous sneer.

“Don’t taunt me with dressing up, Rakitin, you don’t know all that is
in my heart! If I choose to tear off my finery, I’ll tear it off at
once, this minute,” she cried in a resonant voice. “You don’t know what
that finery is for, Rakitin! Perhaps I shall see him and say: ‘Have you
ever seen me look like this before?’ He left me a thin, consumptive
cry-baby of seventeen. I’ll sit by him, fascinate him and work him up.
‘Do you see what I am like now?’ I’ll say to him; ‘well, and that’s
enough for you, my dear sir, there’s many a slip twixt the cup and the
lip!’ That may be what the finery is for, Rakitin.” Grushenka finished
with a malicious laugh. “I’m violent and resentful, Alyosha, I’ll tear
off my finery, I’ll destroy my beauty, I’ll scorch my face, slash it
with a knife, and turn beggar. If I choose, I won’t go anywhere now to
see any one. If I choose, I’ll send Kuzma back all he has ever given
me, to-morrow, and all his money and I’ll go out charing for the rest
of my life. You think I wouldn’t do it, Rakitin, that I would not dare
to do it? I would, I would, I could do it directly, only don’t
exasperate me ... and I’ll send him about his business, I’ll snap my
fingers in his face, he shall never see me again!”

She uttered the last words in an hysterical scream, but broke down
again, hid her face in her hands, buried it in the pillow and shook
with sobs.

Rakitin got up.

“It’s time we were off,” he said, “it’s late, we shall be shut out of
the monastery.”

Grushenka leapt up from her place.

“Surely you don’t want to go, Alyosha!” she cried, in mournful
surprise. “What are you doing to me? You’ve stirred up my feeling,
tortured me, and now you’ll leave me to face this night alone!”

“He can hardly spend the night with you! Though if he wants to, let
him! I’ll go alone,” Rakitin scoffed jeeringly.

“Hush, evil tongue!” Grushenka cried angrily at him; “you never said
such words to me as he has come to say.”

“What has he said to you so special?” asked Rakitin irritably.

“I can’t say, I don’t know. I don’t know what he said to me, it went
straight to my heart; he has wrung my heart.... He is the first, the
only one who has pitied me, that’s what it is. Why did you not come
before, you angel?” She fell on her knees before him as though in a
sudden frenzy. “I’ve been waiting all my life for some one like you, I
knew that some one like you would come and forgive me. I believed that,
nasty as I am, some one would really love me, not only with a shameful
love!”

“What have I done to you?” answered Alyosha, bending over her with a
tender smile, and gently taking her by the hands; “I only gave you an
onion, nothing but a tiny little onion, that was all!”

He was moved to tears himself as he said it. At that moment there was a
sudden noise in the passage, some one came into the hall. Grushenka
jumped up, seeming greatly alarmed. Fenya ran noisily into the room,
crying out:

“Mistress, mistress darling, a messenger has galloped up,” she cried,
breathless and joyful. “A carriage from Mokroe for you, Timofey the
driver, with three horses, they are just putting in fresh horses.... A
letter, here’s the letter, mistress.”

A letter was in her hand and she waved it in the air all the while she
talked. Grushenka snatched the letter from her and carried it to the
candle. It was only a note, a few lines. She read it in one instant.

“He has sent for me,” she cried, her face white and distorted, with a
wan smile; “he whistles! Crawl back, little dog!”

But only for one instant she stood as though hesitating; suddenly the
blood rushed to her head and sent a glow to her cheeks.

“I will go,” she cried; “five years of my life! Good-by! Good-by,
Alyosha, my fate is sealed. Go, go, leave me all of you, don’t let me
see you again! Grushenka is flying to a new life.... Don’t you remember
evil against me either, Rakitin. I may be going to my death! Ugh! I
feel as though I were drunk!”

She suddenly left them and ran into her bedroom.

“Well, she has no thoughts for us now!” grumbled Rakitin. “Let’s go, or
we may hear that feminine shriek again. I am sick of all these tears
and cries.”

Alyosha mechanically let himself be led out. In the yard stood a
covered cart. Horses were being taken out of the shafts, men were
running to and fro with a lantern. Three fresh horses were being led in
at the open gate. But when Alyosha and Rakitin reached the bottom of
the steps, Grushenka’s bedroom window was suddenly opened and she
called in a ringing voice after Alyosha:

“Alyosha, give my greetings to your brother Mitya and tell him not to
remember evil against me, though I have brought him misery. And tell
him, too, in my words: ‘Grushenka has fallen to a scoundrel, and not to
you, noble heart.’ And add, too, that Grushenka loved him only one
hour, only one short hour she loved him—so let him remember that hour
all his life—say, ‘Grushenka tells you to!’”

She ended in a voice full of sobs. The window was shut with a slam.

“H’m, h’m!” growled Rakitin, laughing, “she murders your brother Mitya
and then tells him to remember it all his life! What ferocity!”

Alyosha made no reply, he seemed not to have heard. He walked fast
beside Rakitin as though in a terrible hurry. He was lost in thought
and moved mechanically. Rakitin felt a sudden twinge as though he had
been touched on an open wound. He had expected something quite
different by bringing Grushenka and Alyosha together. Something very
different from what he had hoped for had happened.

“He is a Pole, that officer of hers,” he began again, restraining
himself; “and indeed he is not an officer at all now. He served in the
customs in Siberia, somewhere on the Chinese frontier, some puny little
beggar of a Pole, I expect. Lost his job, they say. He’s heard now that
Grushenka’s saved a little money, so he’s turned up again—that’s the
explanation of the mystery.”

Again Alyosha seemed not to hear. Rakitin could not control himself.

“Well, so you’ve saved the sinner?” he laughed spitefully. “Have you
turned the Magdalene into the true path? Driven out the seven devils,
eh? So you see the miracles you were looking out for just now have come
to pass!”

“Hush, Rakitin,” Alyosha answered with an aching heart.

“So you despise me now for those twenty-five roubles? I’ve sold my
friend, you think. But you are not Christ, you know, and I am not
Judas.”

“Oh, Rakitin, I assure you I’d forgotten about it,” cried Alyosha, “you
remind me of it yourself....”

But this was the last straw for Rakitin.

“Damnation take you all and each of you!” he cried suddenly, “why the
devil did I take you up? I don’t want to know you from this time
forward. Go alone, there’s your road!”

And he turned abruptly into another street, leaving Alyosha alone in
the dark. Alyosha came out of the town and walked across the fields to
the monastery.




Chapter IV.
Cana Of Galilee


It was very late, according to the monastery ideas, when Alyosha
returned to the hermitage; the door-keeper let him in by a special
entrance. It had struck nine o’clock—the hour of rest and repose after
a day of such agitation for all. Alyosha timidly opened the door and
went into the elder’s cell where his coffin was now standing. There was
no one in the cell but Father Païssy, reading the Gospel in solitude
over the coffin, and the young novice Porfiry, who, exhausted by the
previous night’s conversation and the disturbing incidents of the day,
was sleeping the deep sound sleep of youth on the floor of the other
room. Though Father Païssy heard Alyosha come in, he did not even look
in his direction. Alyosha turned to the right from the door to the
corner, fell on his knees and began to pray.

His soul was overflowing but with mingled feelings; no single sensation
stood out distinctly; on the contrary, one drove out another in a slow,
continual rotation. But there was a sweetness in his heart and, strange
to say, Alyosha was not surprised at it. Again he saw that coffin
before him, the hidden dead figure so precious to him, but the weeping
and poignant grief of the morning was no longer aching in his soul. As
soon as he came in, he fell down before the coffin as before a holy
shrine, but joy, joy was glowing in his mind and in his heart. The one
window of the cell was open, the air was fresh and cool. “So the smell
must have become stronger, if they opened the window,” thought Alyosha.
But even this thought of the smell of corruption, which had seemed to
him so awful and humiliating a few hours before, no longer made him
feel miserable or indignant. He began quietly praying, but he soon felt
that he was praying almost mechanically. Fragments of thought floated
through his soul, flashed like stars and went out again at once, to be
succeeded by others. But yet there was reigning in his soul a sense of
the wholeness of things—something steadfast and comforting—and he was
aware of it himself. Sometimes he began praying ardently, he longed to
pour out his thankfulness and love....

But when he had begun to pray, he passed suddenly to something else,
and sank into thought, forgetting both the prayer and what had
interrupted it. He began listening to what Father Païssy was reading,
but worn out with exhaustion he gradually began to doze.

“_And the third day there was a marriage in Cana of Galilee;_” read
Father Païssy. “_And the mother of Jesus was there; And both Jesus was
called, and his disciples, to the marriage._”

“Marriage? What’s that?... A marriage!” floated whirling through
Alyosha’s mind. “There is happiness for her, too.... She has gone to
the feast.... No, she has not taken the knife.... That was only a
tragic phrase.... Well ... tragic phrases should be forgiven, they must
be. Tragic phrases comfort the heart.... Without them, sorrow would be
too heavy for men to bear. Rakitin has gone off to the back alley. As
long as Rakitin broods over his wrongs, he will always go off to the
back alley.... But the high road ... The road is wide and straight and
bright as crystal, and the sun is at the end of it.... Ah!... What’s
being read?”...

“_And when they wanted wine, the mother of Jesus saith unto him, They
have no wine_” ... Alyosha heard.

“Ah, yes, I was missing that, and I didn’t want to miss it, I love that
passage: it’s Cana of Galilee, the first miracle.... Ah, that miracle!
Ah, that sweet miracle! It was not men’s grief, but their joy Christ
visited, He worked His first miracle to help men’s gladness.... ‘He who
loves men loves their gladness, too’ ... He was always repeating that,
it was one of his leading ideas.... ‘There’s no living without joy,’
Mitya says.... Yes, Mitya.... ‘Everything that is true and good is
always full of forgiveness,’ he used to say that, too” ...

“_Jesus saith unto her, Woman, what has it to do with thee or me? Mine
hour is not yet come._

“_His mother saith unto the servants, Whatsoever he saith unto you, do
it_” ...

“Do it.... Gladness, the gladness of some poor, very poor, people....
Of course they were poor, since they hadn’t wine enough even at a
wedding.... The historians write that, in those days, the people living
about the Lake of Gennesaret were the poorest that can possibly be
imagined ... and another great heart, that other great being, His
Mother, knew that He had come not only to make His great terrible
sacrifice. She knew that His heart was open even to the simple, artless
merrymaking of some obscure and unlearned people, who had warmly bidden
Him to their poor wedding. ‘Mine hour is not yet come,’ He said, with a
soft smile (He must have smiled gently to her). And, indeed, was it to
make wine abundant at poor weddings He had come down to earth? And yet
He went and did as she asked Him.... Ah, he is reading again”....

“_Jesus saith unto them, Fill the waterpots with water. And they filled
them up to the brim._

“_And he saith unto them, Draw out now and bear unto the governor of
the feast. And they bare it._

“_When the ruler of the feast had tasted the water that was made wine,
and knew not whence it was; (but the servants which drew the water
knew;) the governor of the feast called the bridegroom,_

“_And saith unto him, Every man at the beginning doth set forth good
wine; and when men have well drunk, that which is worse; but thou hast
kept the good wine until now._”

“But what’s this, what’s this? Why is the room growing wider?... Ah,
yes ... It’s the marriage, the wedding ... yes, of course. Here are the
guests, here are the young couple sitting, and the merry crowd and ...
Where is the wise governor of the feast? But who is this? Who? Again
the walls are receding.... Who is getting up there from the great
table? What!... He here, too? But he’s in the coffin ... but he’s here,
too. He has stood up, he sees me, he is coming here.... God!”...

Yes, he came up to him, to him, he, the little, thin old man, with tiny
wrinkles on his face, joyful and laughing softly. There was no coffin
now, and he was in the same dress as he had worn yesterday sitting with
them, when the visitors had gathered about him. His face was uncovered,
his eyes were shining. How was this, then? He, too, had been called to
the feast. He, too, at the marriage of Cana in Galilee....

“Yes, my dear, I am called, too, called and bidden,” he heard a soft
voice saying over him. “Why have you hidden yourself here, out of
sight? You come and join us too.”

It was his voice, the voice of Father Zossima. And it must be he, since
he called him!

The elder raised Alyosha by the hand and he rose from his knees.

“We are rejoicing,” the little, thin old man went on. “We are drinking
the new wine, the wine of new, great gladness; do you see how many
guests? Here are the bride and bridegroom, here is the wise governor of
the feast, he is tasting the new wine. Why do you wonder at me? I gave
an onion to a beggar, so I, too, am here. And many here have given only
an onion each—only one little onion.... What are all our deeds? And
you, my gentle one, you, my kind boy, you too have known how to give a
famished woman an onion to-day. Begin your work, dear one, begin it,
gentle one!... Do you see our Sun, do you see Him?”

“I am afraid ... I dare not look,” whispered Alyosha.

“Do not fear Him. He is terrible in His greatness, awful in His
sublimity, but infinitely merciful. He has made Himself like unto us
from love and rejoices with us. He is changing the water into wine that
the gladness of the guests may not be cut short. He is expecting new
guests, He is calling new ones unceasingly for ever and ever.... There
they are bringing new wine. Do you see they are bringing the
vessels....”

Something glowed in Alyosha’s heart, something filled it till it ached,
tears of rapture rose from his soul.... He stretched out his hands,
uttered a cry and waked up.

Again the coffin, the open window, and the soft, solemn, distinct
reading of the Gospel. But Alyosha did not listen to the reading. It
was strange, he had fallen asleep on his knees, but now he was on his
feet, and suddenly, as though thrown forward, with three firm rapid
steps he went right up to the coffin. His shoulder brushed against
Father Païssy without his noticing it. Father Païssy raised his eyes
for an instant from his book, but looked away again at once, seeing
that something strange was happening to the boy. Alyosha gazed for half
a minute at the coffin, at the covered, motionless dead man that lay in
the coffin, with the ikon on his breast and the peaked cap with the
octangular cross, on his head. He had only just been hearing his voice,
and that voice was still ringing in his ears. He was listening, still
expecting other words, but suddenly he turned sharply and went out of
the cell.

He did not stop on the steps either, but went quickly down; his soul,
overflowing with rapture, yearned for freedom, space, openness. The
vault of heaven, full of soft, shining stars, stretched vast and
fathomless above him. The Milky Way ran in two pale streams from the
zenith to the horizon. The fresh, motionless, still night enfolded the
earth. The white towers and golden domes of the cathedral gleamed out
against the sapphire sky. The gorgeous autumn flowers, in the beds
round the house, were slumbering till morning. The silence of earth
seemed to melt into the silence of the heavens. The mystery of earth
was one with the mystery of the stars....

Alyosha stood, gazed, and suddenly threw himself down on the earth. He
did not know why he embraced it. He could not have told why he longed
so irresistibly to kiss it, to kiss it all. But he kissed it weeping,
sobbing and watering it with his tears, and vowed passionately to love
it, to love it for ever and ever. “Water the earth with the tears of
your joy and love those tears,” echoed in his soul.

What was he weeping over?

Oh! in his rapture he was weeping even over those stars, which were
shining to him from the abyss of space, and “he was not ashamed of that
ecstasy.” There seemed to be threads from all those innumerable worlds
of God, linking his soul to them, and it was trembling all over “in
contact with other worlds.” He longed to forgive every one and for
everything, and to beg forgiveness. Oh, not for himself, but for all
men, for all and for everything. “And others are praying for me too,”
echoed again in his soul. But with every instant he felt clearly and,
as it were, tangibly, that something firm and unshakable as that vault
of heaven had entered into his soul. It was as though some idea had
seized the sovereignty of his mind—and it was for all his life and for
ever and ever. He had fallen on the earth a weak boy, but he rose up a
resolute champion, and he knew and felt it suddenly at the very moment
of his ecstasy. And never, never, all his life long, could Alyosha
forget that minute.

“Some one visited my soul in that hour,” he used to say afterwards,
with implicit faith in his words.

Within three days he left the monastery in accordance with the words of
his elder, who had bidden him “sojourn in the world.”




Book VIII. Mitya




Chapter I.
Kuzma Samsonov


But Dmitri, to whom Grushenka, flying away to a new life, had left her
last greetings, bidding him remember the hour of her love for ever,
knew nothing of what had happened to her, and was at that moment in a
condition of feverish agitation and activity. For the last two days he
had been in such an inconceivable state of mind that he might easily
have fallen ill with brain fever, as he said himself afterwards.
Alyosha had not been able to find him the morning before, and Ivan had
not succeeded in meeting him at the tavern on the same day. The people
at his lodgings, by his orders, concealed his movements.

He had spent those two days literally rushing in all directions,
“struggling with his destiny and trying to save himself,” as he
expressed it himself afterwards, and for some hours he even made a dash
out of the town on urgent business, terrible as it was to him to lose
sight of Grushenka for a moment. All this was explained afterwards in
detail, and confirmed by documentary evidence; but for the present we
will only note the most essential incidents of those two terrible days
immediately preceding the awful catastrophe, that broke so suddenly
upon him.

Though Grushenka had, it is true, loved him for an hour, genuinely and
sincerely, yet she tortured him sometimes cruelly and mercilessly. The
worst of it was that he could never tell what she meant to do. To
prevail upon her by force or kindness was also impossible: she would
yield to nothing. She would only have become angry and turned away from
him altogether, he knew that well already. He suspected, quite
correctly, that she, too, was passing through an inward struggle, and
was in a state of extraordinary indecision, that she was making up her
mind to something, and unable to determine upon it. And so, not without
good reason, he divined, with a sinking heart, that at moments she must
simply hate him and his passion. And so, perhaps, it was, but what was
distressing Grushenka he did not understand. For him the whole
tormenting question lay between him and Fyodor Pavlovitch.

Here, we must note, by the way, one certain fact: he was firmly
persuaded that Fyodor Pavlovitch would offer, or perhaps had offered,
Grushenka lawful wedlock, and did not for a moment believe that the old
voluptuary hoped to gain his object for three thousand roubles. Mitya
had reached this conclusion from his knowledge of Grushenka and her
character. That was how it was that he could believe at times that all
Grushenka’s uneasiness rose from not knowing which of them to choose,
which was most to her advantage.

Strange to say, during those days it never occurred to him to think of
the approaching return of the “officer,” that is, of the man who had
been such a fatal influence in Grushenka’s life, and whose arrival she
was expecting with such emotion and dread. It is true that of late
Grushenka had been very silent about it. Yet he was perfectly aware of
a letter she had received a month ago from her seducer, and had heard
of it from her own lips. He partly knew, too, what the letter
contained. In a moment of spite Grushenka had shown him that letter,
but to her astonishment he attached hardly any consequence to it. It
would be hard to say why this was. Perhaps, weighed down by all the
hideous horror of his struggle with his own father for this woman, he
was incapable of imagining any danger more terrible, at any rate for
the time. He simply did not believe in a suitor who suddenly turned up
again after five years’ disappearance, still less in his speedy
arrival. Moreover, in the “officer’s” first letter which had been shown
to Mitya, the possibility of his new rival’s visit was very vaguely
suggested. The letter was very indefinite, high-flown, and full of
sentimentality. It must be noted that Grushenka had concealed from him
the last lines of the letter, in which his return was alluded to more
definitely. He had, besides, noticed at that moment, he remembered
afterwards, a certain involuntary proud contempt for this missive from
Siberia on Grushenka’s face. Grushenka told him nothing of what had
passed later between her and this rival; so that by degrees he had
completely forgotten the officer’s existence.

He felt that whatever might come later, whatever turn things might
take, his final conflict with Fyodor Pavlovitch was close upon him, and
must be decided before anything else. With a sinking heart he was
expecting every moment Grushenka’s decision, always believing that it
would come suddenly, on the impulse of the moment. All of a sudden she
would say to him: “Take me, I’m yours for ever,” and it would all be
over. He would seize her and bear her away at once to the ends of the
earth. Oh, then he would bear her away at once, as far, far away as
possible; to the farthest end of Russia, if not of the earth, then he
would marry her, and settle down with her incognito, so that no one
would know anything about them, there, here, or anywhere. Then, oh,
then, a new life would begin at once!

Of this different, reformed and “virtuous” life (“it must, it must be
virtuous”) he dreamed feverishly at every moment. He thirsted for that
reformation and renewal. The filthy morass, in which he had sunk of his
own free will, was too revolting to him, and, like very many men in
such cases, he put faith above all in change of place. If only it were
not for these people, if only it were not for these circumstances, if
only he could fly away from this accursed place—he would be altogether
regenerated, would enter on a new path. That was what he believed in,
and what he was yearning for.

But all this could only be on condition of the first, the _happy_
solution of the question. There was another possibility, a different
and awful ending. Suddenly she might say to him: “Go away. I have just
come to terms with Fyodor Pavlovitch. I am going to marry him and don’t
want you”—and then ... but then.... But Mitya did not know what would
happen then. Up to the last hour he didn’t know. That must be said to
his credit. He had no definite intentions, had planned no crime. He was
simply watching and spying in agony, while he prepared himself for the
first, happy solution of his destiny. He drove away any other idea, in
fact. But for that ending a quite different anxiety arose, a new,
incidental, but yet fatal and insoluble difficulty presented itself.

If she were to say to him: “I’m yours; take me away,” how could he take
her away? Where had he the means, the money to do it? It was just at
this time that all sources of revenue from Fyodor Pavlovitch, doles
which had gone on without interruption for so many years, ceased.
Grushenka had money, of course, but with regard to this Mitya suddenly
evinced extraordinary pride; he wanted to carry her away and begin the
new life with her himself, at his own expense, not at hers. He could
not conceive of taking her money, and the very idea caused him a pang
of intense repulsion. I won’t enlarge on this fact or analyze it here,
but confine myself to remarking that this was his attitude at the
moment. All this may have arisen indirectly and unconsciously from the
secret stings of his conscience for the money of Katerina Ivanovna that
he had dishonestly appropriated. “I’ve been a scoundrel to one of them,
and I shall be a scoundrel again to the other directly,” was his
feeling then, as he explained after: “and when Grushenka knows, she
won’t care for such a scoundrel.”

Where then was he to get the means, where was he to get the fateful
money? Without it, all would be lost and nothing could be done, “and
only because I hadn’t the money. Oh, the shame of it!”

To anticipate things: he did, perhaps, know where to get the money,
knew, perhaps, where it lay at that moment. I will say no more of this
here, as it will all be clear later. But his chief trouble, I must
explain however obscurely, lay in the fact that to have that sum he
knew of, to _have the right_ to take it, he must first restore Katerina
Ivanovna’s three thousand—if not, “I’m a common pickpocket, I’m a
scoundrel, and I don’t want to begin a new life as a scoundrel,” Mitya
decided. And so he made up his mind to move heaven and earth to return
Katerina Ivanovna that three thousand, and that _first of all_. The
final stage of this decision, so to say, had been reached only during
the last hours, that is, after his last interview with Alyosha, two
days before, on the high-road, on the evening when Grushenka had
insulted Katerina Ivanovna, and Mitya, after hearing Alyosha’s account
of it, had admitted that he was a scoundrel, and told him to tell
Katerina Ivanovna so, if it could be any comfort to her. After parting
from his brother on that night, he had felt in his frenzy that it would
be better “to murder and rob some one than fail to pay my debt to
Katya. I’d rather every one thought me a robber and a murderer, I’d
rather go to Siberia than that Katya should have the right to say that
I deceived her and stole her money, and used her money to run away with
Grushenka and begin a new life! That I can’t do!” So Mitya decided,
grinding his teeth, and he might well fancy at times that his brain
would give way. But meanwhile he went on struggling....

Strange to say, though one would have supposed there was nothing left
for him but despair—for what chance had he, with nothing in the world,
to raise such a sum?—yet to the very end he persisted in hoping that he
would get that three thousand, that the money would somehow come to him
of itself, as though it might drop from heaven. That is just how it is
with people who, like Dmitri, have never had anything to do with money,
except to squander what has come to them by inheritance without any
effort of their own, and have no notion how money is obtained. A whirl
of the most fantastic notions took possession of his brain immediately
after he had parted with Alyosha two days before, and threw his
thoughts into a tangle of confusion. This is how it was he pitched
first on a perfectly wild enterprise. And perhaps to men of that kind
in such circumstances the most impossible, fantastic schemes occur
first, and seem most practical.

He suddenly determined to go to Samsonov, the merchant who was
Grushenka’s protector, and to propose a “scheme” to him, and by means
of it to obtain from him at once the whole of the sum required. Of the
commercial value of his scheme he had no doubt, not the slightest, and
was only uncertain how Samsonov would look upon his freak, supposing he
were to consider it from any but the commercial point of view. Though
Mitya knew the merchant by sight, he was not acquainted with him and
had never spoken a word to him. But for some unknown reason he had long
entertained the conviction that the old reprobate, who was lying at
death’s door, would perhaps not at all object now to Grushenka’s
securing a respectable position, and marrying a man “to be depended
upon.” And he believed not only that he would not object, but that this
was what he desired, and, if opportunity arose, that he would be ready
to help. From some rumor, or perhaps from some stray word of
Grushenka’s, he had gathered further that the old man would perhaps
prefer him to Fyodor Pavlovitch for Grushenka.

Possibly many of the readers of my novel will feel that in reckoning on
such assistance, and being ready to take his bride, so to speak, from
the hands of her protector, Dmitri showed great coarseness and want of
delicacy. I will only observe that Mitya looked upon Grushenka’s past
as something completely over. He looked on that past with infinite pity
and resolved with all the fervor of his passion that when once
Grushenka told him she loved him and would marry him, it would mean the
beginning of a new Grushenka and a new Dmitri, free from every vice.
They would forgive one another and would begin their lives afresh. As
for Kuzma Samsonov, Dmitri looked upon him as a man who had exercised a
fateful influence in that remote past of Grushenka’s, though she had
never loved him, and who was now himself a thing of the past,
completely done with, and, so to say, non-existent. Besides, Mitya
hardly looked upon him as a man at all, for it was known to every one
in the town that he was only a shattered wreck, whose relations with
Grushenka had changed their character and were now simply paternal, and
that this had been so for a long time.

In any case there was much simplicity on Mitya’s part in all this, for
in spite of all his vices, he was a very simple-hearted man. It was an
instance of this simplicity that Mitya was seriously persuaded that,
being on the eve of his departure for the next world, old Kuzma must
sincerely repent of his past relations with Grushenka, and that she had
no more devoted friend and protector in the world than this now
harmless old man.

After his conversation with Alyosha, at the cross-roads, he hardly
slept all night, and at ten o’clock next morning, he was at the house
of Samsonov and telling the servant to announce him. It was a very
large and gloomy old house of two stories, with a lodge and outhouses.
In the lower story lived Samsonov’s two married sons with their
families, his old sister, and his unmarried daughter. In the lodge
lived two of his clerks, one of whom also had a large family. Both the
lodge and the lower story were overcrowded, but the old man kept the
upper floor to himself, and would not even let the daughter live there
with him, though she waited upon him, and in spite of her asthma was
obliged at certain fixed hours, and at any time he might call her, to
run upstairs to him from below.

This upper floor contained a number of large rooms kept purely for
show, furnished in the old-fashioned merchant style, with long
monotonous rows of clumsy mahogany chairs along the walls, with glass
chandeliers under shades, and gloomy mirrors on the walls. All these
rooms were entirely empty and unused, for the old man kept to one room,
a small, remote bedroom, where he was waited upon by an old servant
with a kerchief on her head, and by a lad, who used to sit on the
locker in the passage. Owing to his swollen legs, the old man could
hardly walk at all, and was only rarely lifted from his leather
arm-chair, when the old woman supporting him led him up and down the
room once or twice. He was morose and taciturn even with this old
woman.

When he was informed of the arrival of the “captain,” he at once
refused to see him. But Mitya persisted and sent his name up again.
Samsonov questioned the lad minutely: What he looked like? Whether he
was drunk? Was he going to make a row? The answer he received was: that
he was sober, but wouldn’t go away. The old man again refused to see
him. Then Mitya, who had foreseen this, and purposely brought pencil
and paper with him, wrote clearly on the piece of paper the words: “On
most important business closely concerning Agrafena Alexandrovna,” and
sent it up to the old man.

After thinking a little Samsonov told the lad to take the visitor to
the drawing-room, and sent the old woman downstairs with a summons to
his younger son to come upstairs to him at once. This younger son, a
man over six foot and of exceptional physical strength, who was
closely-shaven and dressed in the European style, though his father
still wore a kaftan and a beard, came at once without a comment. All
the family trembled before the father. The old man had sent for this
giant, not because he was afraid of the “captain” (he was by no means
of a timorous temper), but in order to have a witness in case of any
emergency. Supported by his son and the servant-lad, he waddled at last
into the drawing-room. It may be assumed that he felt considerable
curiosity. The drawing-room in which Mitya was awaiting him was a vast,
dreary room that laid a weight of depression on the heart. It had a
double row of windows, a gallery, marbled walls, and three immense
chandeliers with glass lusters covered with shades.

Mitya was sitting on a little chair at the entrance, awaiting his fate
with nervous impatience. When the old man appeared at the opposite
door, seventy feet away, Mitya jumped up at once, and with his long,
military stride walked to meet him. Mitya was well dressed, in a
frock-coat, buttoned up, with a round hat and black gloves in his
hands, just as he had been three days before at the elder’s, at the
family meeting with his father and brothers. The old man waited for
him, standing dignified and unbending, and Mitya felt at once that he
had looked him through and through as he advanced. Mitya was greatly
impressed, too, with Samsonov’s immensely swollen face. His lower lip,
which had always been thick, hung down now, looking like a bun. He
bowed to his guest in dignified silence, motioned him to a low chair by
the sofa, and, leaning on his son’s arm he began lowering himself on to
the sofa opposite, groaning painfully, so that Mitya, seeing his
painful exertions, immediately felt remorseful and sensitively
conscious of his insignificance in the presence of the dignified person
he had ventured to disturb.

“What is it you want of me, sir?” said the old man, deliberately,
distinctly, severely, but courteously, when he was at last seated.

Mitya started, leapt up, but sat down again. Then he began at once
speaking with loud, nervous haste, gesticulating, and in a positive
frenzy. He was unmistakably a man driven into a corner, on the brink of
ruin, catching at the last straw, ready to sink if he failed. Old
Samsonov probably grasped all this in an instant, though his face
remained cold and immovable as a statue’s.

“Most honored sir, Kuzma Kuzmitch, you have no doubt heard more than
once of my disputes with my father, Fyodor Pavlovitch Karamazov, who
robbed me of my inheritance from my mother ... seeing the whole town is
gossiping about it ... for here every one’s gossiping of what they
shouldn’t ... and besides, it might have reached you through Grushenka
... I beg your pardon, through Agrafena Alexandrovna ... Agrafena
Alexandrovna, the lady for whom I have the highest respect and esteem
...”

So Mitya began, and broke down at the first sentence. We will not
reproduce his speech word for word, but will only summarize the gist of
it. Three months ago, he said, he had of express intention (Mitya
purposely used these words instead of “intentionally”) consulted a
lawyer in the chief town of the province, “a distinguished lawyer,
Kuzma Kuzmitch, Pavel Pavlovitch Korneplodov. You have perhaps heard of
him? A man of vast intellect, the mind of a statesman ... he knows you,
too ... spoke of you in the highest terms ...” Mitya broke down again.
But these breaks did not deter him. He leapt instantly over the gaps,
and struggled on and on.

This Korneplodov, after questioning him minutely, and inspecting the
documents he was able to bring him (Mitya alluded somewhat vaguely to
these documents, and slurred over the subject with special haste),
reported that they certainly might take proceedings concerning the
village of Tchermashnya, which ought, he said, to have come to him,
Mitya, from his mother, and so checkmate the old villain, his father
... “because every door was not closed and justice might still find a
loophole.” In fact, he might reckon on an additional sum of six or even
seven thousand roubles from Fyodor Pavlovitch, as Tchermashnya was
worth, at least, twenty-five thousand, he might say twenty-eight
thousand, in fact, “thirty, thirty, Kuzma Kuzmitch, and would you
believe it, I didn’t get seventeen from that heartless man!” So he,
Mitya, had thrown the business up, for the time, knowing nothing about
the law, but on coming here was struck dumb by a cross-claim made upon
him (here Mitya went adrift again and again took a flying leap
forward), “so will not you, excellent and honored Kuzma Kuzmitch, be
willing to take up all my claims against that unnatural monster, and
pay me a sum down of only three thousand?... You see, you cannot, in
any case, lose over it. On my honor, my honor, I swear that. Quite the
contrary, you may make six or seven thousand instead of three.” Above
all, he wanted this concluded that very day.

“I’ll do the business with you at a notary’s, or whatever it is ... in
fact, I’m ready to do anything.... I’ll hand over all the deeds ...
whatever you want, sign anything ... and we could draw up the agreement
at once ... and if it were possible, if it were only possible, that
very morning.... You could pay me that three thousand, for there isn’t
a capitalist in this town to compare with you, and so would save me
from ... would save me, in fact ... for a good, I might say an
honorable action.... For I cherish the most honorable feelings for a
certain person, whom you know well, and care for as a father. I would
not have come, indeed, if it had not been as a father. And, indeed,
it’s a struggle of three in this business, for it’s fate—that’s a
fearful thing, Kuzma Kuzmitch! A tragedy, Kuzma Kuzmitch, a tragedy!
And as you’ve dropped out long ago, it’s a tug-of-war between two. I’m
expressing it awkwardly, perhaps, but I’m not a literary man. You see,
I’m on the one side, and that monster on the other. So you must choose.
It’s either I or the monster. It all lies in your hands—the fate of
three lives, and the happiness of two.... Excuse me, I’m making a mess
of it, but you understand ... I see from your venerable eyes that you
understand ... and if you don’t understand, I’m done for ... so you
see!”

Mitya broke off his clumsy speech with that, “so you see!” and jumping
up from his seat, awaited the answer to his foolish proposal. At the
last phrase he had suddenly become hopelessly aware that it had all
fallen flat, above all, that he had been talking utter nonsense.

“How strange it is! On the way here it seemed all right, and now it’s
nothing but nonsense.” The idea suddenly dawned on his despairing mind.
All the while he had been talking, the old man sat motionless, watching
him with an icy expression in his eyes. After keeping him for a moment
in suspense, Kuzma Kuzmitch pronounced at last in the most positive and
chilling tone:

“Excuse me, we don’t undertake such business.”

Mitya suddenly felt his legs growing weak under him.

“What am I to do now, Kuzma Kuzmitch?” he muttered, with a pale smile.
“I suppose it’s all up with me—what do you think?”

“Excuse me....”

Mitya remained standing, staring motionless. He suddenly noticed a
movement in the old man’s face. He started.

“You see, sir, business of that sort’s not in our line,” said the old
man slowly. “There’s the court, and the lawyers—it’s a perfect misery.
But if you like, there is a man here you might apply to.”

“Good heavens! Who is it? You’re my salvation, Kuzma Kuzmitch,”
faltered Mitya.

“He doesn’t live here, and he’s not here just now. He is a peasant, he
does business in timber. His name is Lyagavy. He’s been haggling with
Fyodor Pavlovitch for the last year, over your copse at Tchermashnya.
They can’t agree on the price, maybe you’ve heard? Now he’s come back
again and is staying with the priest at Ilyinskoe, about twelve versts
from the Volovya station. He wrote to me, too, about the business of
the copse, asking my advice. Fyodor Pavlovitch means to go and see him
himself. So if you were to be beforehand with Fyodor Pavlovitch and to
make Lyagavy the offer you’ve made me, he might possibly—”

“A brilliant idea!” Mitya interrupted ecstatically. “He’s the very man,
it would just suit him. He’s haggling with him for it, being asked too
much, and here he would have all the documents entitling him to the
property itself. Ha ha ha!”

And Mitya suddenly went off into his short, wooden laugh, startling
Samsonov.

“How can I thank you, Kuzma Kuzmitch?” cried Mitya effusively.

“Don’t mention it,” said Samsonov, inclining his head.

“But you don’t know, you’ve saved me. Oh, it was a true presentiment
brought me to you.... So now to this priest!”

“No need of thanks.”

“I’ll make haste and fly there. I’m afraid I’ve overtaxed your
strength. I shall never forget it. It’s a Russian says that, Kuzma
Kuzmitch, a R-r-russian!”

“To be sure!”

Mitya seized his hand to press it, but there was a malignant gleam in
the old man’s eye. Mitya drew back his hand, but at once blamed himself
for his mistrustfulness.

“It’s because he’s tired,” he thought.

“For her sake! For her sake, Kuzma Kuzmitch! You understand that it’s
for her,” he cried, his voice ringing through the room. He bowed,
turned sharply round, and with the same long stride walked to the door
without looking back. He was trembling with delight.

“Everything was on the verge of ruin and my guardian angel saved me,”
was the thought in his mind. And if such a business man as Samsonov (a
most worthy old man, and what dignity!) had suggested this course, then
... then success was assured. He would fly off immediately. “I will be
back before night, I shall be back at night and the thing is done.
Could the old man have been laughing at me?” exclaimed Mitya, as he
strode towards his lodging. He could, of course, imagine nothing, but
that the advice was practical “from such a business man” with an
understanding of the business, with an understanding of this Lyagavy
(curious surname!). Or—the old man was laughing at him.

Alas! The second alternative was the correct one. Long afterwards, when
the catastrophe had happened, old Samsonov himself confessed, laughing,
that he had made a fool of the “captain.” He was a cold, spiteful and
sarcastic man, liable to violent antipathies. Whether it was the
“captain’s” excited face, or the foolish conviction of the “rake and
spendthrift,” that he, Samsonov, could be taken in by such a
cock-and-bull story as his scheme, or his jealousy of Grushenka, in
whose name this “scapegrace” had rushed in on him with such a tale to
get money which worked on the old man, I can’t tell. But at the instant
when Mitya stood before him, feeling his legs grow weak under him, and
frantically exclaiming that he was ruined, at that moment the old man
looked at him with intense spite, and resolved to make a laughing-stock
of him. When Mitya had gone, Kuzma Kuzmitch, white with rage, turned to
his son and bade him see to it that that beggar be never seen again,
and never admitted even into the yard, or else he’d—

He did not utter his threat. But even his son, who often saw him
enraged, trembled with fear. For a whole hour afterwards, the old man
was shaking with anger, and by evening he was worse, and sent for the
doctor.




Chapter II.
Lyagavy


So he must drive at full speed, and he had not the money for horses. He
had forty kopecks, and that was all, all that was left after so many
years of prosperity! But he had at home an old silver watch which had
long ceased to go. He snatched it up and carried it to a Jewish
watchmaker who had a shop in the market-place. The Jew gave him six
roubles for it.

“And I didn’t expect that,” cried Mitya, ecstatically. (He was still in
a state of ecstasy.) He seized his six roubles and ran home. At home he
borrowed three roubles from the people of the house, who loved him so
much that they were pleased to give it him, though it was all they had.
Mitya in his excitement told them on the spot that his fate would be
decided that day, and he described, in desperate haste, the whole
scheme he had put before Samsonov, the latter’s decision, his own hopes
for the future, and so on. These people had been told many of their
lodger’s secrets before, and so looked upon him as a gentleman who was
not at all proud, and almost one of themselves. Having thus collected
nine roubles Mitya sent for posting-horses to take him to the Volovya
station. This was how the fact came to be remembered and established
that “at midday, on the day before the event, Mitya had not a farthing,
and that he had sold his watch to get money and had borrowed three
roubles from his landlord, all in the presence of witnesses.”

I note this fact, later on it will be apparent why I do so.

Though he was radiant with the joyful anticipation that he would at
last solve all his difficulties, yet, as he drew near Volovya station,
he trembled at the thought of what Grushenka might be doing in his
absence. What if she made up her mind to-day to go to Fyodor
Pavlovitch? This was why he had gone off without telling her and why he
left orders with his landlady not to let out where he had gone, if any
one came to inquire for him.

“I must, I must get back to-night,” he repeated, as he was jolted along
in the cart, “and I dare say I shall have to bring this Lyagavy back
here ... to draw up the deed.” So mused Mitya, with a throbbing heart,
but alas! his dreams were not fated to be carried out.

To begin with, he was late, taking a short cut from Volovya station
which turned out to be eighteen versts instead of twelve. Secondly, he
did not find the priest at home at Ilyinskoe; he had gone off to a
neighboring village. While Mitya, setting off there with the same
exhausted horses, was looking for him, it was almost dark.

The priest, a shy and amiable looking little man, informed him at once
that though Lyagavy had been staying with him at first, he was now at
Suhoy Possyolok, that he was staying the night in the forester’s
cottage, as he was buying timber there too. At Mitya’s urgent request
that he would take him to Lyagavy at once, and by so doing “save him,
so to speak,” the priest agreed, after some demur, to conduct him to
Suhoy Possyolok; his curiosity was obviously aroused. But, unluckily,
he advised their going on foot, as it would not be “much over” a verst.
Mitya, of course, agreed, and marched off with his yard-long strides,
so that the poor priest almost ran after him. He was a very cautious
man, though not old.

Mitya at once began talking to him, too, of his plans, nervously and
excitedly asking advice in regard to Lyagavy, and talking all the way.
The priest listened attentively, but gave little advice. He turned off
Mitya’s questions with: “I don’t know. Ah, I can’t say. How can I
tell?” and so on. When Mitya began to speak of his quarrel with his
father over his inheritance, the priest was positively alarmed, as he
was in some way dependent on Fyodor Pavlovitch. He inquired, however,
with surprise, why he called the peasant-trader Gorstkin, Lyagavy, and
obligingly explained to Mitya that, though the man’s name really was
Lyagavy, he was never called so, as he would be grievously offended at
the name, and that he must be sure to call him Gorstkin, “or you’ll do
nothing with him; he won’t even listen to you,” said the priest in
conclusion.

Mitya was somewhat surprised for a moment, and explained that that was
what Samsonov had called him. On hearing this fact, the priest dropped
the subject, though he would have done well to put into words his doubt
whether, if Samsonov had sent him to that peasant, calling him Lyagavy,
there was not something wrong about it and he was turning him into
ridicule. But Mitya had no time to pause over such trifles. He hurried,
striding along, and only when he reached Suhoy Possyolok did he realize
that they had come not one verst, nor one and a half, but at least
three. This annoyed him, but he controlled himself.

They went into the hut. The forester lived in one half of the hut, and
Gorstkin was lodging in the other, the better room the other side of
the passage. They went into that room and lighted a tallow candle. The
hut was extremely overheated. On the table there was a samovar that had
gone out, a tray with cups, an empty rum bottle, a bottle of vodka
partly full, and some half-eaten crusts of wheaten bread. The visitor
himself lay stretched at full length on the bench, with his coat
crushed up under his head for a pillow, snoring heavily. Mitya stood in
perplexity.

“Of course I must wake him. My business is too important. I’ve come in
such haste. I’m in a hurry to get back to-day,” he said in great
agitation. But the priest and the forester stood in silence, not giving
their opinion. Mitya went up and began trying to wake him himself; he
tried vigorously, but the sleeper did not wake.

“He’s drunk,” Mitya decided. “Good Lord! What am I to do? What am I to
do?” And, terribly impatient, he began pulling him by the arms, by the
legs, shaking his head, lifting him up and making him sit on the bench.
Yet, after prolonged exertions, he could only succeed in getting the
drunken man to utter absurd grunts, and violent, but inarticulate
oaths.

“No, you’d better wait a little,” the priest pronounced at last, “for
he’s obviously not in a fit state.”

“He’s been drinking the whole day,” the forester chimed in.

“Good heavens!” cried Mitya. “If only you knew how important it is to
me and how desperate I am!”

“No, you’d better wait till morning,” the priest repeated.

“Till morning? Mercy! that’s impossible!”

And in his despair he was on the point of attacking the sleeping man
again, but stopped short at once, realizing the uselessness of his
efforts. The priest said nothing, the sleepy forester looked gloomy.

“What terrible tragedies real life contrives for people,” said Mitya,
in complete despair. The perspiration was streaming down his face. The
priest seized the moment to put before him, very reasonably, that, even
if he succeeded in wakening the man, he would still be drunk and
incapable of conversation. “And your business is important,” he said,
“so you’d certainly better put it off till morning.” With a gesture of
despair Mitya agreed.

“Father, I will stay here with a light, and seize the favorable moment.
As soon as he wakes I’ll begin. I’ll pay you for the light,” he said to
the forester, “for the night’s lodging, too; you’ll remember Dmitri
Karamazov. Only, Father, I don’t know what we’re to do with you. Where
will you sleep?”

“No, I’m going home. I’ll take his horse and get home,” he said,
indicating the forester. “And now I’ll say good-by. I wish you all
success.”

So it was settled. The priest rode off on the forester’s horse,
delighted to escape, though he shook his head uneasily, wondering
whether he ought not next day to inform his benefactor Fyodor
Pavlovitch of this curious incident, “or he may in an unlucky hour hear
of it, be angry, and withdraw his favor.”

The forester, scratching himself, went back to his room without a word,
and Mitya sat on the bench to “catch the favorable moment,” as he
expressed it. Profound dejection clung about his soul like a heavy
mist. A profound, intense dejection! He sat thinking, but could reach
no conclusion. The candle burnt dimly, a cricket chirped; it became
insufferably close in the overheated room. He suddenly pictured the
garden, the path behind the garden, the door of his father’s house
mysteriously opening and Grushenka running in. He leapt up from the
bench.

“It’s a tragedy!” he said, grinding his teeth. Mechanically he went up
to the sleeping man and looked in his face. He was a lean, middle-aged
peasant, with a very long face, flaxen curls, and a long, thin, reddish
beard, wearing a blue cotton shirt and a black waistcoat, from the
pocket of which peeped the chain of a silver watch. Mitya looked at his
face with intense hatred, and for some unknown reason his curly hair
particularly irritated him.

What was insufferably humiliating was, that after leaving things of
such importance and making such sacrifices, he, Mitya, utterly worn
out, should with business of such urgency be standing over this dolt on
whom his whole fate depended, while he snored as though there were
nothing the matter, as though he’d dropped from another planet.

“Oh, the irony of fate!” cried Mitya, and, quite losing his head, he
fell again to rousing the tipsy peasant. He roused him with a sort of
ferocity, pulled at him, pushed him, even beat him; but after five
minutes of vain exertions, he returned to his bench in helpless
despair, and sat down.

“Stupid! Stupid!” cried Mitya. “And how dishonorable it all is!”
something made him add. His head began to ache horribly. “Should he
fling it up and go away altogether?” he wondered. “No, wait till
to-morrow now. I’ll stay on purpose. What else did I come for? Besides,
I’ve no means of going. How am I to get away from here now? Oh, the
idiocy of it!”

But his head ached more and more. He sat without moving, and
unconsciously dozed off and fell asleep as he sat. He seemed to have
slept for two hours or more. He was waked up by his head aching so
unbearably that he could have screamed. There was a hammering in his
temples, and the top of his head ached. It was a long time before he
could wake up fully and understand what had happened to him.

At last he realized that the room was full of charcoal fumes from the
stove, and that he might die of suffocation. And the drunken peasant
still lay snoring. The candle guttered and was about to go out. Mitya
cried out, and ran staggering across the passage into the forester’s
room. The forester waked up at once, but hearing that the other room
was full of fumes, to Mitya’s surprise and annoyance, accepted the fact
with strange unconcern, though he did go to see to it.

“But he’s dead, he’s dead! and ... what am I to do then?” cried Mitya
frantically.

They threw open the doors, opened a window and the chimney. Mitya
brought a pail of water from the passage. First he wetted his own head,
then, finding a rag of some sort, dipped it into the water, and put it
on Lyagavy’s head. The forester still treated the matter
contemptuously, and when he opened the window said grumpily:

“It’ll be all right, now.”

He went back to sleep, leaving Mitya a lighted lantern. Mitya fussed
about the drunken peasant for half an hour, wetting his head, and
gravely resolved not to sleep all night. But he was so worn out that
when he sat down for a moment to take breath, he closed his eyes,
unconsciously stretched himself full length on the bench and slept like
the dead.

It was dreadfully late when he waked. It was somewhere about nine
o’clock. The sun was shining brightly in the two little windows of the
hut. The curly-headed peasant was sitting on the bench and had his coat
on. He had another samovar and another bottle in front of him.
Yesterday’s bottle had already been finished, and the new one was more
than half empty. Mitya jumped up and saw at once that the cursed
peasant was drunk again, hopelessly and incurably. He stared at him for
a moment with wide opened eyes. The peasant was silently and slyly
watching him, with insulting composure, and even a sort of contemptuous
condescension, so Mitya fancied. He rushed up to him.

“Excuse me, you see ... I ... you’ve most likely heard from the
forester here in the hut. I’m Lieutenant Dmitri Karamazov, the son of
the old Karamazov whose copse you are buying.”

“That’s a lie!” said the peasant, calmly and confidently.

“A lie? You know Fyodor Pavlovitch?”

“I don’t know any of your Fyodor Pavlovitches,” said the peasant,
speaking thickly.

“You’re bargaining with him for the copse, for the copse. Do wake up,
and collect yourself. Father Pavel of Ilyinskoe brought me here. You
wrote to Samsonov, and he has sent me to you,” Mitya gasped
breathlessly.

“You’re l-lying!” Lyagavy blurted out again. Mitya’s legs went cold.

“For mercy’s sake! It isn’t a joke! You’re drunk, perhaps. Yet you can
speak and understand ... or else ... I understand nothing!”

“You’re a painter!”

“For mercy’s sake! I’m Karamazov, Dmitri Karamazov. I have an offer to
make you, an advantageous offer ... very advantageous offer, concerning
the copse!”

The peasant stroked his beard importantly.

“No, you’ve contracted for the job and turned out a scamp. You’re a
scoundrel!”

“I assure you you’re mistaken,” cried Mitya, wringing his hands in
despair. The peasant still stroked his beard, and suddenly screwed up
his eyes cunningly.

“No, you show me this: you tell me the law that allows roguery. D’you
hear? You’re a scoundrel! Do you understand that?”

Mitya stepped back gloomily, and suddenly “something seemed to hit him
on the head,” as he said afterwards. In an instant a light seemed to
dawn in his mind, “a light was kindled and I grasped it all.” He stood,
stupefied, wondering how he, after all a man of intelligence, could
have yielded to such folly, have been led into such an adventure, and
have kept it up for almost twenty-four hours, fussing round this
Lyagavy, wetting his head.

“Why, the man’s drunk, dead drunk, and he’ll go on drinking now for a
week; what’s the use of waiting here? And what if Samsonov sent me here
on purpose? What if she—? Oh, God, what have I done?”

The peasant sat watching him and grinning. Another time Mitya might
have killed the fool in a fury, but now he felt as weak as a child. He
went quietly to the bench, took up his overcoat, put it on without a
word, and went out of the hut. He did not find the forester in the next
room; there was no one there. He took fifty kopecks in small change out
of his pocket and put them on the table for his night’s lodging, the
candle, and the trouble he had given. Coming out of the hut he saw
nothing but forest all round. He walked at hazard, not knowing which
way to turn out of the hut, to the right or to the left. Hurrying there
the evening before with the priest, he had not noticed the road. He had
no revengeful feeling for anybody, even for Samsonov, in his heart. He
strode along a narrow forest path, aimless, dazed, without heeding
where he was going. A child could have knocked him down, so weak was he
in body and soul. He got out of the forest somehow, however, and a
vista of fields, bare after the harvest, stretched as far as the eye
could see.

“What despair! What death all round!” he repeated, striding on and on.

He was saved by meeting an old merchant who was being driven across
country in a hired trap. When he overtook him, Mitya asked the way, and
it turned out that the old merchant, too, was going to Volovya. After
some discussion Mitya got into the trap. Three hours later they
arrived. At Volovya, Mitya at once ordered posting-horses to drive to
the town, and suddenly realized that he was appallingly hungry. While
the horses were being harnessed, an omelette was prepared for him. He
ate it all in an instant, ate a huge hunk of bread, ate a sausage, and
swallowed three glasses of vodka. After eating, his spirits and his
heart grew lighter. He flew towards the town, urged on the driver, and
suddenly made a new and “unalterable” plan to procure that “accursed
money” before evening. “And to think, only to think that a man’s life
should be ruined for the sake of that paltry three thousand!” he cried,
contemptuously. “I’ll settle it to-day.” And if it had not been for
the thought of Grushenka and of what might have happened to her, which
never left him, he would perhaps have become quite cheerful again....
But the thought of her was stabbing him to the heart every moment, like
a sharp knife.

At last they arrived, and Mitya at once ran to Grushenka.




Chapter III.
Gold-Mines


This was the visit of Mitya of which Grushenka had spoken to Rakitin
with such horror. She was just then expecting the “message,” and was
much relieved that Mitya had not been to see her that day or the day
before. She hoped that “please God he won’t come till I’m gone away,”
and he suddenly burst in on her. The rest we know already. To get him
off her hands she suggested at once that he should walk with her to
Samsonov’s, where she said she absolutely must go “to settle his
accounts,” and when Mitya accompanied her at once, she said good-by to
him at the gate, making him promise to come at twelve o’clock to take
her home again. Mitya, too, was delighted at this arrangement. If she
was sitting at Samsonov’s she could not be going to Fyodor
Pavlovitch’s, “if only she’s not lying,” he added at once. But he
thought she was not lying from what he saw.

He was that sort of jealous man who, in the absence of the beloved
woman, at once invents all sorts of awful fancies of what may be
happening to her, and how she may be betraying him, but, when shaken,
heartbroken, convinced of her faithlessness, he runs back to her; at
the first glance at her face, her gay, laughing, affectionate face, he
revives at once, lays aside all suspicion and with joyful shame abuses
himself for his jealousy.

After leaving Grushenka at the gate he rushed home. Oh, he had so much
still to do that day! But a load had been lifted from his heart,
anyway.

“Now I must only make haste and find out from Smerdyakov whether
anything happened there last night, whether, by any chance, she went to
Fyodor Pavlovitch; ough!” floated through his mind.

Before he had time to reach his lodging, jealousy had surged up again
in his restless heart.

Jealousy! “Othello was not jealous, he was trustful,” observed Pushkin.
And that remark alone is enough to show the deep insight of our great
poet. Othello’s soul was shattered and his whole outlook clouded simply
because _his ideal was destroyed_. But Othello did not begin hiding,
spying, peeping. He was trustful, on the contrary. He had to be led up,
pushed on, excited with great difficulty before he could entertain the
idea of deceit. The truly jealous man is not like that. It is
impossible to picture to oneself the shame and moral degradation to
which the jealous man can descend without a qualm of conscience. And
yet it’s not as though the jealous were all vulgar and base souls. On
the contrary, a man of lofty feelings, whose love is pure and full of
self-sacrifice, may yet hide under tables, bribe the vilest people, and
be familiar with the lowest ignominy of spying and eavesdropping.

Othello was incapable of making up his mind to faithlessness—not
incapable of forgiving it, but of making up his mind to it—though his
soul was as innocent and free from malice as a babe’s. It is not so
with the really jealous man. It is hard to imagine what some jealous
men can make up their mind to and overlook, and what they can forgive!
The jealous are the readiest of all to forgive, and all women know it.
The jealous man can forgive extraordinarily quickly (though, of course,
after a violent scene), and he is able to forgive infidelity almost
conclusively proved, the very kisses and embraces he has seen, if only
he can somehow be convinced that it has all been “for the last time,”
and that his rival will vanish from that day forward, will depart to
the ends of the earth, or that he himself will carry her away
somewhere, where that dreaded rival will not get near her. Of course
the reconciliation is only for an hour. For, even if the rival did
disappear next day, he would invent another one and would be jealous of
him. And one might wonder what there was in a love that had to be so
watched over, what a love could be worth that needed such strenuous
guarding. But that the jealous will never understand. And yet among
them are men of noble hearts. It is remarkable, too, that those very
men of noble hearts, standing hidden in some cupboard, listening and
spying, never feel the stings of conscience at that moment, anyway,
though they understand clearly enough with their “noble hearts” the
shameful depths to which they have voluntarily sunk.

At the sight of Grushenka, Mitya’s jealousy vanished, and, for an
instant he became trustful and generous, and positively despised
himself for his evil feelings. But it only proved that, in his love for
the woman, there was an element of something far higher than he himself
imagined, that it was not only a sensual passion, not only the “curve
of her body,” of which he had talked to Alyosha. But, as soon as
Grushenka had gone, Mitya began to suspect her of all the low cunning
of faithlessness, and he felt no sting of conscience at it.

And so jealousy surged up in him again. He had, in any case, to make
haste. The first thing to be done was to get hold of at least a small,
temporary loan of money. The nine roubles had almost all gone on his
expedition. And, as we all know, one can’t take a step without money.
But he had thought over in the cart where he could get a loan. He had a
brace of fine dueling pistols in a case, which he had not pawned till
then because he prized them above all his possessions.

In the “Metropolis” tavern he had some time since made acquaintance
with a young official and had learnt that this very opulent bachelor
was passionately fond of weapons. He used to buy pistols, revolvers,
daggers, hang them on his wall and show them to acquaintances. He
prided himself on them, and was quite a specialist on the mechanism of
the revolver. Mitya, without stopping to think, went straight to him,
and offered to pawn his pistols to him for ten roubles. The official,
delighted, began trying to persuade him to sell them outright. But
Mitya would not consent, so the young man gave him ten roubles,
protesting that nothing would induce him to take interest. They parted
friends.

Mitya was in haste; he rushed towards Fyodor Pavlovitch’s by the back
way, to his arbor, to get hold of Smerdyakov as soon as possible. In
this way the fact was established that three or four hours before a
certain event, of which I shall speak later on, Mitya had not a
farthing, and pawned for ten roubles a possession he valued, though,
three hours later, he was in possession of thousands.... But I am
anticipating. From Marya Kondratyevna (the woman living near Fyodor
Pavlovitch’s) he learned the very disturbing fact of Smerdyakov’s
illness. He heard the story of his fall in the cellar, his fit, the
doctor’s visit, Fyodor Pavlovitch’s anxiety; he heard with interest,
too, that his brother Ivan had set off that morning for Moscow.

“Then he must have driven through Volovya before me,” thought Dmitri,
but he was terribly distressed about Smerdyakov. “What will happen now?
Who’ll keep watch for me? Who’ll bring me word?” he thought. He began
greedily questioning the women whether they had seen anything the
evening before. They quite understood what he was trying to find out,
and completely reassured him. No one had been there. Ivan Fyodorovitch
had been there the night; everything had been perfectly as usual. Mitya
grew thoughtful. He would certainly have to keep watch to-day, but
where? Here or at Samsonov’s gate? He decided that he must be on the
look out both here and there, and meanwhile ... meanwhile.... The
difficulty was that he had to carry out the new plan that he had made
on the journey back. He was sure of its success, but he must not delay
acting upon it. Mitya resolved to sacrifice an hour to it: “In an hour
I shall know everything, I shall settle everything, and then, then,
first of all to Samsonov’s. I’ll inquire whether Grushenka’s there and
instantly be back here again, stay till eleven, and then to Samsonov’s
again to bring her home.” This was what he decided.

He flew home, washed, combed his hair, brushed his clothes, dressed,
and went to Madame Hohlakov’s. Alas! he had built his hopes on her. He
had resolved to borrow three thousand from that lady. And what was
more, he felt suddenly convinced that she would not refuse to lend it
to him. It may be wondered why, if he felt so certain, he had not gone
to her at first, one of his own sort, so to speak, instead of to
Samsonov, a man he did not know, who was not of his own class, and to
whom he hardly knew how to speak.

But the fact was that he had never known Madame Hohlakov well, and had
seen nothing of her for the last month, and that he knew she could not
endure him. She had detested him from the first because he was engaged
to Katerina Ivanovna, while she had, for some reason, suddenly
conceived the desire that Katerina Ivanovna should throw him over, and
marry the “charming, chivalrously refined Ivan, who had such excellent
manners.” Mitya’s manners she detested. Mitya positively laughed at
her, and had once said about her that she was just as lively and at her
ease as she was uncultivated. But that morning in the cart a brilliant
idea had struck him: “If she is so anxious I should not marry Katerina
Ivanovna” (and he knew she was positively hysterical upon the subject)
“why should she refuse me now that three thousand, just to enable me to
leave Katya and get away from her for ever. These spoilt fine ladies,
if they set their hearts on anything, will spare no expense to satisfy
their caprice. Besides, she’s so rich,” Mitya argued.

As for his “plan” it was just the same as before; it consisted of the
offer of his rights to Tchermashnya—but not with a commercial object,
as it had been with Samsonov, not trying to allure the lady with the
possibility of making a profit of six or seven thousand—but simply as a
security for the debt. As he worked out this new idea, Mitya was
enchanted with it, but so it always was with him in all his
undertakings, in all his sudden decisions. He gave himself up to every
new idea with passionate enthusiasm. Yet, when he mounted the steps of
Madame Hohlakov’s house he felt a shiver of fear run down his spine. At
that moment he saw fully, as a mathematical certainty, that this was
his last hope, that if this broke down, nothing else was left him in
the world, but to “rob and murder some one for the three thousand.” It
was half-past seven when he rang at the bell.

At first fortune seemed to smile upon him. As soon as he was announced
he was received with extraordinary rapidity. “As though she were
waiting for me,” thought Mitya, and as soon as he had been led to the
drawing-room, the lady of the house herself ran in, and declared at
once that she was expecting him.

“I was expecting you! I was expecting you! Though I’d no reason to
suppose you would come to see me, as you will admit yourself. Yet, I
did expect you. You may marvel at my instinct, Dmitri Fyodorovitch, but
I was convinced all the morning that you would come.”

“That is certainly wonderful, madam,” observed Mitya, sitting down
limply, “but I have come to you on a matter of great importance.... On
a matter of supreme importance for me, that is, madam ... for me alone
... and I hasten—”

“I know you’ve come on most important business, Dmitri Fyodorovitch;
it’s not a case of presentiment, no reactionary harking back to the
miraculous (have you heard about Father Zossima?). This is a case of
mathematics: you couldn’t help coming, after all that has passed with
Katerina Ivanovna; you couldn’t, you couldn’t, that’s a mathematical
certainty.”

“The realism of actual life, madam, that’s what it is. But allow me to
explain—”

“Realism indeed, Dmitri Fyodorovitch. I’m all for realism now. I’ve
seen too much of miracles. You’ve heard that Father Zossima is dead?”

“No, madam, it’s the first time I’ve heard of it.” Mitya was a little
surprised. The image of Alyosha rose to his mind.

“Last night, and only imagine—”

“Madam,” said Mitya, “I can imagine nothing except that I’m in a
desperate position, and that if you don’t help me, everything will come
to grief, and I first of all. Excuse me for the triviality of the
expression, but I’m in a fever—”

“I know, I know that you’re in a fever. You could hardly fail to be,
and whatever you may say to me, I know beforehand. I have long been
thinking over your destiny, Dmitri Fyodorovitch, I am watching over it
and studying it.... Oh, believe me, I’m an experienced doctor of the
soul, Dmitri Fyodorovitch.”

“Madam, if you are an experienced doctor, I’m certainly an experienced
patient,” said Mitya, with an effort to be polite, “and I feel that if
you are watching over my destiny in this way, you will come to my help
in my ruin, and so allow me, at least to explain to you the plan with
which I have ventured to come to you ... and what I am hoping of
you.... I have come, madam—”

“Don’t explain it. It’s of secondary importance. But as for help,
you’re not the first I have helped, Dmitri Fyodorovitch. You have most
likely heard of my cousin, Madame Belmesov. Her husband was ruined,
‘had come to grief,’ as you characteristically express it, Dmitri
Fyodorovitch. I recommended him to take to horse-breeding, and now he’s
doing well. Have you any idea of horse-breeding, Dmitri Fyodorovitch?”

“Not the faintest, madam; ah, madam, not the faintest!” cried Mitya, in
nervous impatience, positively starting from his seat. “I simply
implore you, madam, to listen to me. Only give me two minutes of free
speech that I may just explain to you everything, the whole plan with
which I have come. Besides, I am short of time. I’m in a fearful
hurry,” Mitya cried hysterically, feeling that she was just going to
begin talking again, and hoping to cut her short. “I have come in
despair ... in the last gasp of despair, to beg you to lend me the sum
of three thousand, a loan, but on safe, most safe security, madam, with
the most trustworthy guarantees! Only let me explain—”

“You must tell me all that afterwards, afterwards!” Madame Hohlakov
with a gesture demanded silence in her turn, “and whatever you may tell
me, I know it all beforehand; I’ve told you so already. You ask for a
certain sum, for three thousand, but I can give you more, immeasurably
more, I will save you, Dmitri Fyodorovitch, but you must listen to me.”

Mitya started from his seat again.

“Madam, will you really be so good!” he cried, with strong feeling.
“Good God, you’ve saved me! You have saved a man from a violent death,
from a bullet.... My eternal gratitude—”

“I will give you more, infinitely more than three thousand!” cried
Madame Hohlakov, looking with a radiant smile at Mitya’s ecstasy.

“Infinitely? But I don’t need so much. I only need that fatal three
thousand, and on my part I can give security for that sum with infinite
gratitude, and I propose a plan which—”

“Enough, Dmitri Fyodorovitch, it’s said and done.” Madame Hohlakov cut
him short, with the modest triumph of beneficence: “I have promised to
save you, and I will save you. I will save you as I did Belmesov. What
do you think of the gold-mines, Dmitri Fyodorovitch?”

“Of the gold-mines, madam? I have never thought anything about them.”

“But I have thought of them for you. Thought of them over and over
again. I have been watching you for the last month. I’ve watched you a
hundred times as you’ve walked past, saying to myself: that’s a man of
energy who ought to be at the gold-mines. I’ve studied your gait and
come to the conclusion: that’s a man who would find gold.”

“From my gait, madam?” said Mitya, smiling.

“Yes, from your gait. You surely don’t deny that character can be told
from the gait, Dmitri Fyodorovitch? Science supports the idea. I’m all
for science and realism now. After all this business with Father
Zossima, which has so upset me, from this very day I’m a realist and I
want to devote myself to practical usefulness. I’m cured. ‘Enough!’ as
Turgenev says.”

“But, madam, the three thousand you so generously promised to lend me—”

“It is yours, Dmitri Fyodorovitch,” Madame Hohlakov cut in at once.
“The money is as good as in your pocket, not three thousand, but three
million, Dmitri Fyodorovitch, in less than no time. I’ll make you a
present of the idea: you shall find gold-mines, make millions, return
and become a leading man, and wake us up and lead us to better things.
Are we to leave it all to the Jews? You will found institutions and
enterprises of all sorts. You will help the poor, and they will bless
you. This is the age of railways, Dmitri Fyodorovitch. You’ll become
famous and indispensable to the Department of Finance, which is so
badly off at present. The depreciation of the rouble keeps me awake at
night, Dmitri Fyodorovitch; people don’t know that side of me—”

“Madam, madam!” Dmitri interrupted with an uneasy presentiment. “I
shall indeed, perhaps, follow your advice, your wise advice, madam....
I shall perhaps set off ... to the gold-mines.... I’ll come and see you
again about it ... many times, indeed ... but now, that three thousand
you so generously ... oh, that would set me free, and if you could
to-day ... you see, I haven’t a minute, a minute to lose to-day—”

“Enough, Dmitri Fyodorovitch, enough!” Madame Hohlakov interrupted
emphatically. “The question is, will you go to the gold-mines or not;
have you quite made up your mind? Answer yes or no.”

“I will go, madam, afterwards.... I’ll go where you like ... but now—”

“Wait!” cried Madame Hohlakov. And jumping up and running to a handsome
bureau with numerous little drawers, she began pulling out one drawer
after another, looking for something with desperate haste.

“The three thousand,” thought Mitya, his heart almost stopping, “and at
the instant ... without any papers or formalities ... that’s doing
things in gentlemanly style! She’s a splendid woman, if only she didn’t
talk so much!”

“Here!” cried Madame Hohlakov, running back joyfully to Mitya, “here is
what I was looking for!”

It was a tiny silver ikon on a cord, such as is sometimes worn next the
skin with a cross.

“This is from Kiev, Dmitri Fyodorovitch,” she went on reverently, “from
the relics of the Holy Martyr, Varvara. Let me put it on your neck
myself, and with it dedicate you to a new life, to a new career.”

And she actually put the cord round his neck, and began arranging it.
In extreme embarrassment, Mitya bent down and helped her, and at last
he got it under his neck-tie and collar through his shirt to his chest.

“Now you can set off,” Madame Hohlakov pronounced, sitting down
triumphantly in her place again.

“Madam, I am so touched. I don’t know how to thank you, indeed ... for
such kindness, but ... If only you knew how precious time is to me....
That sum of money, for which I shall be indebted to your generosity....
Oh, madam, since you are so kind, so touchingly generous to me,” Mitya
exclaimed impulsively, “then let me reveal to you ... though, of
course, you’ve known it a long time ... that I love somebody here.... I
have been false to Katya ... Katerina Ivanovna I should say.... Oh,
I’ve behaved inhumanly, dishonorably to her, but I fell in love here
with another woman ... a woman whom you, madam, perhaps, despise, for
you know everything already, but whom I cannot leave on any account,
and therefore that three thousand now—”

“Leave everything, Dmitri Fyodorovitch,” Madame Hohlakov interrupted in
the most decisive tone. “Leave everything, especially women. Gold-mines
are your goal, and there’s no place for women there. Afterwards, when
you come back rich and famous, you will find the girl of your heart in
the highest society. That will be a modern girl, a girl of education
and advanced ideas. By that time the dawning woman question will have
gained ground, and the new woman will have appeared.”

“Madam, that’s not the point, not at all....” Mitya clasped his hands
in entreaty.

“Yes, it is, Dmitri Fyodorovitch, just what you need; the very thing
you’re yearning for, though you don’t realize it yourself. I am not at
all opposed to the present woman movement, Dmitri Fyodorovitch. The
development of woman, and even the political emancipation of woman in
the near future—that’s my ideal. I’ve a daughter myself, Dmitri
Fyodorovitch, people don’t know that side of me. I wrote a letter to
the author, Shtchedrin, on that subject. He has taught me so much, so
much about the vocation of woman. So last year I sent him an anonymous
letter of two lines: ‘I kiss and embrace you, my teacher, for the
modern woman. Persevere.’ And I signed myself, ‘A Mother.’ I thought of
signing myself ‘A contemporary Mother,’ and hesitated, but I stuck to
the simple ‘Mother’; there’s more moral beauty in that, Dmitri
Fyodorovitch. And the word ‘contemporary’ might have reminded him of
‘_The Contemporary_’—a painful recollection owing to the censorship....
Good Heavens, what is the matter!”

“Madam!” cried Mitya, jumping up at last, clasping his hands before her
in helpless entreaty. “You will make me weep if you delay what you have
so generously—”

“Oh, do weep, Dmitri Fyodorovitch, do weep! That’s a noble feeling ...
such a path lies open before you! Tears will ease your heart, and later
on you will return rejoicing. You will hasten to me from Siberia on
purpose to share your joy with me—”

“But allow me, too!” Mitya cried suddenly. “For the last time I entreat
you, tell me, can I have the sum you promised me to-day, if not, when
may I come for it?”

“What sum, Dmitri Fyodorovitch?”

“The three thousand you promised me ... that you so generously—”

“Three thousand? Roubles? Oh, no, I haven’t got three thousand,” Madame
Hohlakov announced with serene amazement. Mitya was stupefied.

“Why, you said just now ... you said ... you said it was as good as in
my hands—”

“Oh, no, you misunderstood me, Dmitri Fyodorovitch. In that case you
misunderstood me. I was talking of the gold-mines. It’s true I promised
you more, infinitely more than three thousand, I remember it all now,
but I was referring to the gold-mines.”

“But the money? The three thousand?” Mitya exclaimed, awkwardly.

“Oh, if you meant money, I haven’t any. I haven’t a penny, Dmitri
Fyodorovitch. I’m quarreling with my steward about it, and I’ve just
borrowed five hundred roubles from Miüsov, myself. No, no, I’ve no
money. And, do you know, Dmitri Fyodorovitch, if I had, I wouldn’t give
it to you. In the first place I never lend money. Lending money means
losing friends. And I wouldn’t give it to you particularly. I wouldn’t
give it you, because I like you and want to save you, for all you need
is the gold-mines, the gold-mines, the gold-mines!”

“Oh, the devil!” roared Mitya, and with all his might brought his fist
down on the table.

“Aie! Aie!” cried Madame Hohlakov, alarmed, and she flew to the other
end of the drawing-room.

Mitya spat on the ground, and strode rapidly out of the room, out of
the house, into the street, into the darkness! He walked like one
possessed, and beating himself on the breast, on the spot where he had
struck himself two days previously, before Alyosha, the last time he
saw him in the dark, on the road. What those blows upon his breast
signified, _on that spot_, and what he meant by it—that was, for the
time, a secret which was known to no one in the world, and had not been
told even to Alyosha. But that secret meant for him more than disgrace;
it meant ruin, suicide. So he had determined, if he did not get hold of
the three thousand that would pay his debt to Katerina Ivanovna, and so
remove from his breast, from _that spot on his breast_, the shame he
carried upon it, that weighed on his conscience. All this will be fully
explained to the reader later on, but now that his last hope had
vanished, this man, so strong in appearance, burst out crying like a
little child a few steps from the Hohlakovs’ house. He walked on, and
not knowing what he was doing, wiped away his tears with his fist. In
this way he reached the square, and suddenly became aware that he had
stumbled against something. He heard a piercing wail from an old woman
whom he had almost knocked down.

“Good Lord, you’ve nearly killed me! Why don’t you look where you’re
going, scapegrace?”

“Why, it’s you!” cried Mitya, recognizing the old woman in the dark. It
was the old servant who waited on Samsonov, whom Mitya had particularly
noticed the day before.

“And who are you, my good sir?” said the old woman, in quite a
different voice. “I don’t know you in the dark.”

“You live at Kuzma Kuzmitch’s. You’re the servant there?”

“Just so, sir, I was only running out to Prohoritch’s.... But I don’t
know you now.”

“Tell me, my good woman, is Agrafena Alexandrovna there now?” said
Mitya, beside himself with suspense. “I saw her to the house some time
ago.”

“She has been there, sir. She stayed a little while, and went off
again.”

“What? Went away?” cried Mitya. “When did she go?”

“Why, as soon as she came. She only stayed a minute. She only told
Kuzma Kuzmitch a tale that made him laugh, and then she ran away.”

“You’re lying, damn you!” roared Mitya.

“Aie! Aie!” shrieked the old woman, but Mitya had vanished.

He ran with all his might to the house where Grushenka lived. At the
moment he reached it, Grushenka was on her way to Mokroe. It was not
more than a quarter of an hour after her departure.

Fenya was sitting with her grandmother, the old cook, Matryona, in the
kitchen when “the captain” ran in. Fenya uttered a piercing shriek on
seeing him.

“You scream?” roared Mitya, “where is she?”

But without giving the terror-stricken Fenya time to utter a word, he
fell all of a heap at her feet.

“Fenya, for Christ’s sake, tell me, where is she?”

“I don’t know. Dmitri Fyodorovitch, my dear, I don’t know. You may kill
me but I can’t tell you.” Fenya swore and protested. “You went out with
her yourself not long ago—”

“She came back!”

“Indeed she didn’t. By God I swear she didn’t come back.”

“You’re lying!” shouted Mitya. “From your terror I know where she is.”

He rushed away. Fenya in her fright was glad she had got off so easily.
But she knew very well that it was only that he was in such haste, or
she might not have fared so well. But as he ran, he surprised both
Fenya and old Matryona by an unexpected action. On the table stood a
brass mortar, with a pestle in it, a small brass pestle, not much more
than six inches long. Mitya already had opened the door with one hand
when, with the other, he snatched up the pestle, and thrust it in his
side-pocket.

“Oh, Lord! He’s going to murder some one!” cried Fenya, flinging up her
hands.




Chapter IV.
In The Dark


Where was he running? “Where could she be except at Fyodor
Pavlovitch’s? She must have run straight to him from Samsonov’s, that
was clear now. The whole intrigue, the whole deceit was evident.” ...
It all rushed whirling through his mind. He did not run to Marya
Kondratyevna’s. “There was no need to go there ... not the slightest
need ... he must raise no alarm ... they would run and tell
directly.... Marya Kondratyevna was clearly in the plot, Smerdyakov
too, he too, all had been bought over!”

He formed another plan of action: he ran a long way round Fyodor
Pavlovitch’s house, crossing the lane, running down Dmitrovsky Street,
then over the little bridge, and so came straight to the deserted alley
at the back, which was empty and uninhabited, with, on one side the
hurdle fence of a neighbor’s kitchen-garden, on the other the strong
high fence, that ran all round Fyodor Pavlovitch’s garden. Here he
chose a spot, apparently the very place, where according to the
tradition, he knew Lizaveta had once climbed over it: “If she could
climb over it,” the thought, God knows why, occurred to him, “surely I
can.” He did in fact jump up, and instantly contrived to catch hold of
the top of the fence. Then he vigorously pulled himself up and sat
astride on it. Close by, in the garden stood the bath-house, but from
the fence he could see the lighted windows of the house too.

“Yes, the old man’s bedroom is lighted up. She’s there!” and he leapt
from the fence into the garden. Though he knew Grigory was ill and very
likely Smerdyakov, too, and that there was no one to hear him, he
instinctively hid himself, stood still, and began to listen. But there
was dead silence on all sides and, as though of design, complete
stillness, not the slightest breath of wind.

“And naught but the whispering silence,” the line for some reason rose
to his mind. “If only no one heard me jump over the fence! I think
not.” Standing still for a minute, he walked softly over the grass in
the garden, avoiding the trees and shrubs. He walked slowly, creeping
stealthily at every step, listening to his own footsteps. It took him
five minutes to reach the lighted window. He remembered that just under
the window there were several thick and high bushes of elder and
whitebeam. The door from the house into the garden on the left-hand
side, was shut; he had carefully looked on purpose to see, in passing.
At last he reached the bushes and hid behind them. He held his breath.
“I must wait now,” he thought, “to reassure them, in case they heard my
footsteps and are listening ... if only I don’t cough or sneeze.”

He waited two minutes. His heart was beating violently, and, at
moments, he could scarcely breathe. “No, this throbbing at my heart
won’t stop,” he thought. “I can’t wait any longer.” He was standing
behind a bush in the shadow. The light of the window fell on the front
part of the bush.

“How red the whitebeam berries are!” he murmured, not knowing why.
Softly and noiselessly, step by step, he approached the window, and
raised himself on tiptoe. All Fyodor Pavlovitch’s bedroom lay open
before him. It was not a large room, and was divided in two parts by a
red screen, “Chinese,” as Fyodor Pavlovitch used to call it. The word
“Chinese” flashed into Mitya’s mind, “and behind the screen, is
Grushenka,” thought Mitya. He began watching Fyodor Pavlovitch, who was
wearing his new striped-silk dressing-gown, which Mitya had never seen,
and a silk cord with tassels round the waist. A clean, dandified shirt
of fine linen with gold studs peeped out under the collar of the
dressing-gown. On his head Fyodor Pavlovitch had the same red bandage
which Alyosha had seen.

“He has got himself up,” thought Mitya.

His father was standing near the window, apparently lost in thought.
Suddenly he jerked up his head, listened a moment, and hearing nothing
went up to the table, poured out half a glass of brandy from a decanter
and drank it off. Then he uttered a deep sigh, again stood still a
moment, walked carelessly up to the looking-glass on the wall, with his
right hand raised the red bandage on his forehead a little, and began
examining his bruises and scars, which had not yet disappeared.

“He’s alone,” thought Mitya, “in all probability he’s alone.”

Fyodor Pavlovitch moved away from the looking-glass, turned suddenly to
the window and looked out. Mitya instantly slipped away into the
shadow.

“She may be there behind the screen. Perhaps she’s asleep by now,” he
thought, with a pang at his heart. Fyodor Pavlovitch moved away from
the window. “He’s looking for her out of the window, so she’s not
there. Why should he stare out into the dark? He’s wild with
impatience.” ... Mitya slipped back at once, and fell to gazing in at
the window again. The old man was sitting down at the table, apparently
disappointed. At last he put his elbow on the table, and laid his right
cheek against his hand. Mitya watched him eagerly.

“He’s alone, he’s alone!” he repeated again. “If she were here, his
face would be different.”

Strange to say, a queer, irrational vexation rose up in his heart that
she was not here. “It’s not that she’s not here,” he explained to
himself, immediately, “but that I can’t tell for certain whether she is
or not.” Mitya remembered afterwards that his mind was at that moment
exceptionally clear, that he took in everything to the slightest
detail, and missed no point. But a feeling of misery, the misery of
uncertainty and indecision, was growing in his heart with every
instant. “Is she here or not?” The angry doubt filled his heart, and
suddenly, making up his mind, he put out his hand and softly knocked on
the window frame. He knocked the signal the old man had agreed upon
with Smerdyakov, twice slowly and then three times more quickly, the
signal that meant “Grushenka is here!”

The old man started, jerked up his head, and, jumping up quickly, ran
to the window. Mitya slipped away into the shadow. Fyodor Pavlovitch
opened the window and thrust his whole head out.

“Grushenka, is it you? Is it you?” he said, in a sort of trembling
half-whisper. “Where are you, my angel, where are you?” He was
fearfully agitated and breathless.

“He’s alone.” Mitya decided.

“Where are you?” cried the old man again; and he thrust his head out
farther, thrust it out to the shoulders, gazing in all directions,
right and left. “Come here, I’ve a little present for you. Come, I’ll
show you....”

“He means the three thousand,” thought Mitya.

“But where are you? Are you at the door? I’ll open it directly.”

And the old man almost climbed out of the window, peering out to the
right, where there was a door into the garden, trying to see into the
darkness. In another second he would certainly have run out to open the
door without waiting for Grushenka’s answer.

Mitya looked at him from the side without stirring. The old man’s
profile that he loathed so, his pendent Adam’s apple, his hooked nose,
his lips that smiled in greedy expectation, were all brightly lighted
up by the slanting lamplight falling on the left from the room. A
horrible fury of hatred suddenly surged up in Mitya’s heart: “There he
was, his rival, the man who had tormented him, had ruined his life!” It
was a rush of that sudden, furious, revengeful anger of which he had
spoken, as though foreseeing it, to Alyosha, four days ago in the
arbor, when, in answer to Alyosha’s question, “How can you say you’ll
kill our father?” “I don’t know, I don’t know,” he had said then.
“Perhaps I shall not kill him, perhaps I shall. I’m afraid he’ll
suddenly be so loathsome to me at that moment. I hate his double chin,
his nose, his eyes, his shameless grin. I feel a personal repulsion.
That’s what I’m afraid of, that’s what may be too much for me.” ...
This personal repulsion was growing unendurable. Mitya was beside
himself, he suddenly pulled the brass pestle out of his pocket.


“God was watching over me then,” Mitya himself said afterwards. At that
very moment Grigory waked up on his bed of sickness. Earlier in the
evening he had undergone the treatment which Smerdyakov had described
to Ivan. He had rubbed himself all over with vodka mixed with a secret,
very strong decoction, had drunk what was left of the mixture while his
wife repeated a “certain prayer” over him, after which he had gone to
bed. Marfa Ignatyevna had tasted the stuff, too, and, being unused to
strong drink, slept like the dead beside her husband.

But Grigory waked up in the night, quite suddenly, and, after a
moment’s reflection, though he immediately felt a sharp pain in his
back, he sat up in bed. Then he deliberated again, got up and dressed
hurriedly. Perhaps his conscience was uneasy at the thought of sleeping
while the house was unguarded “in such perilous times.” Smerdyakov,
exhausted by his fit, lay motionless in the next room. Marfa Ignatyevna
did not stir. “The stuff’s been too much for the woman,” Grigory
thought, glancing at her, and groaning, he went out on the steps. No
doubt he only intended to look out from the steps, for he was hardly
able to walk, the pain in his back and his right leg was intolerable.
But he suddenly remembered that he had not locked the little gate into
the garden that evening. He was the most punctual and precise of men, a
man who adhered to an unchangeable routine, and habits that lasted for
years. Limping and writhing with pain he went down the steps and
towards the garden. Yes, the gate stood wide open. Mechanically he
stepped into the garden. Perhaps he fancied something, perhaps caught
some sound, and, glancing to the left he saw his master’s window open.
No one was looking out of it then.

“What’s it open for? It’s not summer now,” thought Grigory, and
suddenly, at that very instant he caught a glimpse of something
extraordinary before him in the garden. Forty paces in front of him a
man seemed to be running in the dark, a sort of shadow was moving very
fast.

“Good Lord!” cried Grigory beside himself, and forgetting the pain in
his back, he hurried to intercept the running figure. He took a short
cut, evidently he knew the garden better; the flying figure went
towards the bath-house, ran behind it and rushed to the garden fence.
Grigory followed, not losing sight of him, and ran, forgetting
everything. He reached the fence at the very moment the man was
climbing over it. Grigory cried out, beside himself, pounced on him,
and clutched his leg in his two hands.

Yes, his foreboding had not deceived him. He recognized him, it was he,
the “monster,” the “parricide.”

“Parricide!” the old man shouted so that the whole neighborhood could
hear, but he had not time to shout more, he fell at once, as though
struck by lightning.

Mitya jumped back into the garden and bent over the fallen man. In
Mitya’s hands was a brass pestle, and he flung it mechanically in the
grass. The pestle fell two paces from Grigory, not in the grass but on
the path, in a most conspicuous place. For some seconds he examined the
prostrate figure before him. The old man’s head was covered with blood.
Mitya put out his hand and began feeling it. He remembered afterwards
clearly, that he had been awfully anxious to make sure whether he had
broken the old man’s skull, or simply stunned him with the pestle. But
the blood was flowing horribly; and in a moment Mitya’s fingers were
drenched with the hot stream. He remembered taking out of his pocket
the clean white handkerchief with which he had provided himself for his
visit to Madame Hohlakov, and putting it to the old man’s head,
senselessly trying to wipe the blood from his face and temples. But the
handkerchief was instantly soaked with blood.

“Good heavens! what am I doing it for?” thought Mitya, suddenly pulling
himself together. “If I have broken his skull, how can I find out now?
And what difference does it make now?” he added, hopelessly. “If I’ve
killed him, I’ve killed him.... You’ve come to grief, old man, so there
you must lie!” he said aloud. And suddenly turning to the fence, he
vaulted over it into the lane and fell to running—the handkerchief
soaked with blood he held, crushed up in his right fist, and as he ran
he thrust it into the back pocket of his coat. He ran headlong, and the
few passers-by who met him in the dark, in the streets, remembered
afterwards that they had met a man running that night. He flew back
again to the widow Morozov’s house.

Immediately after he had left it that evening, Fenya had rushed to the
chief porter, Nazar Ivanovitch, and besought him, for Christ’s sake,
“not to let the captain in again to-day or to-morrow.” Nazar Ivanovitch
promised, but went upstairs to his mistress who had suddenly sent for
him, and meeting his nephew, a boy of twenty, who had recently come
from the country, on the way up told him to take his place, but forgot
to mention “the captain.” Mitya, running up to the gate, knocked. The
lad instantly recognized him, for Mitya had more than once tipped him.
Opening the gate at once, he let him in, and hastened to inform him
with a good-humored smile that “Agrafena Alexandrovna is not at home
now, you know.”

“Where is she then, Prohor?” asked Mitya, stopping short.

“She set off this evening, some two hours ago, with Timofey, to
Mokroe.”

“What for?” cried Mitya.

“That I can’t say. To see some officer. Some one invited her and horses
were sent to fetch her.”

Mitya left him, and ran like a madman to Fenya.




Chapter V.
A Sudden Resolution


She was sitting in the kitchen with her grandmother; they were both
just going to bed. Relying on Nazar Ivanovitch, they had not locked
themselves in. Mitya ran in, pounced on Fenya and seized her by the
throat.

“Speak at once! Where is she? With whom is she now, at Mokroe?” he
roared furiously.

Both the women squealed.

“Aie! I’ll tell you. Aie! Dmitri Fyodorovitch, darling, I’ll tell you
everything directly, I won’t hide anything,” gabbled Fenya, frightened
to death; “she’s gone to Mokroe, to her officer.”

“What officer?” roared Mitya.

“To her officer, the same one she used to know, the one who threw her
over five years ago,” cackled Fenya, as fast as she could speak.

Mitya withdrew the hands with which he was squeezing her throat. He
stood facing her, pale as death, unable to utter a word, but his eyes
showed that he realized it all, all, from the first word, and guessed
the whole position. Poor Fenya was not in a condition at that moment to
observe whether he understood or not. She remained sitting on the trunk
as she had been when he ran into the room, trembling all over, holding
her hands out before her as though trying to defend herself. She seemed
to have grown rigid in that position. Her wide-opened, scared eyes were
fixed immovably upon him. And to make matters worse, both his hands
were smeared with blood. On the way, as he ran, he must have touched
his forehead with them, wiping off the perspiration, so that on his
forehead and his right cheek were blood-stained patches. Fenya was on
the verge of hysterics. The old cook had jumped up and was staring at
him like a mad woman, almost unconscious with terror.

Mitya stood for a moment, then mechanically sank on to a chair next to
Fenya. He sat, not reflecting but, as it were, terror-stricken,
benumbed. Yet everything was clear as day: that officer, he knew about
him, he knew everything perfectly, he had known it from Grushenka
herself, had known that a letter had come from him a month before. So
that for a month, for a whole month, this had been going on, a secret
from him, till the very arrival of this new man, and he had never
thought of him! But how could he, how could he not have thought of him?
Why was it he had forgotten this officer, like that, forgotten him as
soon as he heard of him? That was the question that faced him like some
monstrous thing. And he looked at this monstrous thing with horror,
growing cold with horror.

But suddenly, as gently and mildly as a gentle and affectionate child,
he began speaking to Fenya as though he had utterly forgotten how he
had scared and hurt her just now. He fell to questioning Fenya with an
extreme preciseness, astonishing in his position, and though the girl
looked wildly at his blood-stained hands, she, too, with wonderful
readiness and rapidity, answered every question as though eager to put
the whole truth and nothing but the truth before him. Little by little,
even with a sort of enjoyment, she began explaining every detail, not
wanting to torment him, but, as it were, eager to be of the utmost
service to him. She described the whole of that day, in great detail,
the visit of Rakitin and Alyosha, how she, Fenya, had stood on the
watch, how the mistress had set off, and how she had called out of the
window to Alyosha to give him, Mitya, her greetings, and to tell him
“to remember for ever how she had loved him for an hour.”

Hearing of the message, Mitya suddenly smiled, and there was a flush of
color on his pale cheeks. At the same moment Fenya said to him, not a
bit afraid now to be inquisitive:

“Look at your hands, Dmitri Fyodorovitch. They’re all over blood!”

“Yes,” answered Mitya mechanically. He looked carelessly at his hands
and at once forgot them and Fenya’s question.

He sank into silence again. Twenty minutes had passed since he had run
in. His first horror was over, but evidently some new fixed
determination had taken possession of him. He suddenly stood up,
smiling dreamily.

“What has happened to you, sir?” said Fenya, pointing to his hands
again. She spoke compassionately, as though she felt very near to him
now in his grief. Mitya looked at his hands again.

“That’s blood, Fenya,” he said, looking at her with a strange
expression. “That’s human blood, and my God! why was it shed? But ...
Fenya ... there’s a fence here” (he looked at her as though setting her
a riddle), “a high fence, and terrible to look at. But at dawn
to-morrow, when the sun rises, Mitya will leap over that fence.... You
don’t understand what fence, Fenya, and, never mind.... You’ll hear
to-morrow and understand ... and now, good-by. I won’t stand in her
way. I’ll step aside, I know how to step aside. Live, my joy.... You
loved me for an hour, remember Mityenka Karamazov so for ever.... She
always used to call me Mityenka, do you remember?”

And with those words he went suddenly out of the kitchen. Fenya was
almost more frightened at this sudden departure than she had been when
he ran in and attacked her.

Just ten minutes later Dmitri went in to Pyotr Ilyitch Perhotin, the
young official with whom he had pawned his pistols. It was by now
half-past eight, and Pyotr Ilyitch had finished his evening tea, and
had just put his coat on again to go to the “Metropolis” to play
billiards. Mitya caught him coming out.

Seeing him with his face all smeared with blood, the young man uttered
a cry of surprise.

“Good heavens! What is the matter?”

“I’ve come for my pistols,” said Mitya, “and brought you the money. And
thanks very much. I’m in a hurry, Pyotr Ilyitch, please make haste.”

Pyotr Ilyitch grew more and more surprised; he suddenly caught sight of
a bundle of bank-notes in Mitya’s hand, and what was more, he had
walked in holding the notes as no one walks in and no one carries
money: he had them in his right hand, and held them outstretched as if
to show them. Perhotin’s servant-boy, who met Mitya in the passage,
said afterwards that he walked into the passage in the same way, with
the money outstretched in his hand, so he must have been carrying them
like that even in the streets. They were all rainbow-colored
hundred-rouble notes, and the fingers holding them were covered with
blood.

When Pyotr Ilyitch was questioned later on as to the sum of money, he
said that it was difficult to judge at a glance, but that it might have
been two thousand, or perhaps three, but it was a big, “fat” bundle.
“Dmitri Fyodorovitch,” so he testified afterwards, “seemed unlike
himself, too; not drunk, but, as it were, exalted, lost to everything,
but at the same time, as it were, absorbed, as though pondering and
searching for something and unable to come to a decision. He was in
great haste, answered abruptly and very strangely, and at moments
seemed not at all dejected but quite cheerful.”

“But what _is_ the matter with you? What’s wrong?” cried Pyotr Ilyitch,
looking wildly at his guest. “How is it that you’re all covered with
blood? Have you had a fall? Look at yourself!”

He took him by the elbow and led him to the glass.

Seeing his blood-stained face, Mitya started and scowled wrathfully.

“Damnation! That’s the last straw,” he muttered angrily, hurriedly
changing the notes from his right hand to the left, and impulsively
jerked the handkerchief out of his pocket. But the handkerchief turned
out to be soaked with blood, too (it was the handkerchief he had used
to wipe Grigory’s face). There was scarcely a white spot on it, and it
had not merely begun to dry, but had stiffened into a crumpled ball and
could not be pulled apart. Mitya threw it angrily on the floor.

“Oh, damn it!” he said. “Haven’t you a rag of some sort ... to wipe my
face?”

“So you’re only stained, not wounded? You’d better wash,” said Pyotr
Ilyitch. “Here’s a wash-stand. I’ll pour you out some water.”

“A wash-stand? That’s all right ... but where am I to put this?”

With the strangest perplexity he indicated his bundle of hundred-rouble
notes, looking inquiringly at Pyotr Ilyitch as though it were for him
to decide what he, Mitya, was to do with his own money.

“In your pocket, or on the table here. They won’t be lost.”

“In my pocket? Yes, in my pocket. All right.... But, I say, that’s all
nonsense,” he cried, as though suddenly coming out of his absorption.
“Look here, let’s first settle that business of the pistols. Give them
back to me. Here’s your money ... because I am in great need of them
... and I haven’t a minute, a minute to spare.”

And taking the topmost note from the bundle he held it out to Pyotr
Ilyitch.

“But I shan’t have change enough. Haven’t you less?”

“No,” said Mitya, looking again at the bundle, and as though not
trusting his own words he turned over two or three of the topmost ones.

“No, they’re all alike,” he added, and again he looked inquiringly at
Pyotr Ilyitch.

“How have you grown so rich?” the latter asked. “Wait, I’ll send my boy
to Plotnikov’s, they close late—to see if they won’t change it. Here,
Misha!” he called into the passage.

“To Plotnikov’s shop—first-rate!” cried Mitya, as though struck by an
idea. “Misha,” he turned to the boy as he came in, “look here, run to
Plotnikov’s and tell them that Dmitri Fyodorovitch sends his greetings,
and will be there directly.... But listen, listen, tell them to have
champagne, three dozen bottles, ready before I come, and packed as it
was to take to Mokroe. I took four dozen with me then,” he added
(suddenly addressing Pyotr Ilyitch); “they know all about it, don’t you
trouble, Misha,” he turned again to the boy. “Stay, listen; tell them
to put in cheese, Strasburg pies, smoked fish, ham, caviare, and
everything, everything they’ve got, up to a hundred roubles, or a
hundred and twenty as before.... But wait: don’t let them forget
dessert, sweets, pears, water-melons, two or three or four—no, one
melon’s enough, and chocolate, candy, toffee, fondants; in fact,
everything I took to Mokroe before, three hundred roubles’ worth with
the champagne ... let it be just the same again. And remember, Misha,
if you are called Misha—His name is Misha, isn’t it?” He turned to
Pyotr Ilyitch again.

“Wait a minute,” Protr Ilyitch intervened, listening and watching him
uneasily, “you’d better go yourself and tell them. He’ll muddle it.”

“He will, I see he will! Eh, Misha! Why, I was going to kiss you for
the commission.... If you don’t make a mistake, there’s ten roubles for
you, run along, make haste.... Champagne’s the chief thing, let them
bring up champagne. And brandy, too, and red and white wine, and all I
had then.... They know what I had then.”

“But listen!” Pyotr Ilyitch interrupted with some impatience. “I say,
let him simply run and change the money and tell them not to close, and
you go and tell them.... Give him your note. Be off, Misha! Put your
best leg forward!”

Pyotr Ilyitch seemed to hurry Misha off on purpose, because the boy
remained standing with his mouth and eyes wide open, apparently
understanding little of Mitya’s orders, gazing up with amazement and
terror at his blood-stained face and the trembling bloodstained fingers
that held the notes.

“Well, now come and wash,” said Pyotr Ilyitch sternly. “Put the money
on the table or else in your pocket.... That’s right, come along. But
take off your coat.”

And beginning to help him off with his coat, he cried out again:

“Look, your coat’s covered with blood, too!”

“That ... it’s not the coat. It’s only a little here on the sleeve....
And that’s only here where the handkerchief lay. It must have soaked
through. I must have sat on the handkerchief at Fenya’s, and the
blood’s come through,” Mitya explained at once with a childlike
unconsciousness that was astounding. Pyotr Ilyitch listened, frowning.

“Well, you must have been up to something; you must have been fighting
with some one,” he muttered.

They began to wash. Pyotr Ilyitch held the jug and poured out the
water. Mitya, in desperate haste, scarcely soaped his hands (they were
trembling, and Pyotr Ilyitch remembered it afterwards). But the young
official insisted on his soaping them thoroughly and rubbing them more.
He seemed to exercise more and more sway over Mitya, as time went on.
It may be noted in passing that he was a young man of sturdy character.

“Look, you haven’t got your nails clean. Now rub your face; here, on
your temples, by your ear.... Will you go in that shirt? Where are you
going? Look, all the cuff of your right sleeve is covered with blood.”

“Yes, it’s all bloody,” observed Mitya, looking at the cuff of his
shirt.

“Then change your shirt.”

“I haven’t time. You see I’ll ...” Mitya went on with the same
confiding ingenuousness, drying his face and hands on the towel, and
putting on his coat. “I’ll turn it up at the wrist. It won’t be seen
under the coat.... You see!”

“Tell me now, what game have you been up to? Have you been fighting
with some one? In the tavern again, as before? Have you been beating
that captain again?” Pyotr Ilyitch asked him reproachfully. “Whom have
you been beating now ... or killing, perhaps?”

“Nonsense!” said Mitya.

“Why ‘nonsense’?”

“Don’t worry,” said Mitya, and he suddenly laughed. “I smashed an old
woman in the market-place just now.”

“Smashed? An old woman?”

“An old man!” cried Mitya, looking Pyotr Ilyitch straight in the face,
laughing, and shouting at him as though he were deaf.

“Confound it! An old woman, an old man.... Have you killed some one?”

“We made it up. We had a row—and made it up. In a place I know of. We
parted friends. A fool.... He’s forgiven me.... He’s sure to have
forgiven me by now ... if he had got up, he wouldn’t have forgiven
me”—Mitya suddenly winked—“only damn him, you know, I say, Pyotr
Ilyitch, damn him! Don’t worry about him! I don’t want to just now!”
Mitya snapped out, resolutely.

“Whatever do you want to go picking quarrels with every one for? ...
Just as you did with that captain over some nonsense.... You’ve been
fighting and now you’re rushing off on the spree—that’s you all over!
Three dozen champagne—what do you want all that for?”

“Bravo! Now give me the pistols. Upon my honor I’ve no time now. I
should like to have a chat with you, my dear boy, but I haven’t the
time. And there’s no need, it’s too late for talking. Where’s my money?
Where have I put it?” he cried, thrusting his hands into his pockets.

“You put it on the table ... yourself.... Here it is. Had you
forgotten? Money’s like dirt or water to you, it seems. Here are your
pistols. It’s an odd thing, at six o’clock you pledged them for ten
roubles, and now you’ve got thousands. Two or three I should say.”

“Three, you bet,” laughed Mitya, stuffing the notes into the
side-pocket of his trousers.

“You’ll lose it like that. Have you found a gold-mine?”

“The mines? The gold-mines?” Mitya shouted at the top of his voice and
went off into a roar of laughter. “Would you like to go to the mines,
Perhotin? There’s a lady here who’ll stump up three thousand for you,
if only you’ll go. She did it for me, she’s so awfully fond of
gold-mines. Do you know Madame Hohlakov?”

“I don’t know her, but I’ve heard of her and seen her. Did she really
give you three thousand? Did she really?” said Pyotr Ilyitch, eyeing
him dubiously.

“As soon as the sun rises to-morrow, as soon as Phœbus, ever young,
flies upwards, praising and glorifying God, you go to her, this Madame
Hohlakov, and ask her whether she did stump up that three thousand or
not. Try and find out.”

“I don’t know on what terms you are ... since you say it so positively,
I suppose she did give it to you. You’ve got the money in your hand,
but instead of going to Siberia you’re spending it all.... Where are
you really off to now, eh?”

“To Mokroe.”

“To Mokroe? But it’s night!”

“Once the lad had all, now the lad has naught,” cried Mitya suddenly.

“How ‘naught’? You say that with all those thousands!”

“I’m not talking about thousands. Damn thousands! I’m talking of the
female character.

Fickle is the heart of woman
Treacherous and full of vice;


I agree with Ulysses. That’s what he says.”

“I don’t understand you!”

“Am I drunk?”

“Not drunk, but worse.”

“I’m drunk in spirit, Pyotr Ilyitch, drunk in spirit! But that’s
enough!”

“What are you doing, loading the pistol?”

“I’m loading the pistol.”

Unfastening the pistol-case, Mitya actually opened the powder horn, and
carefully sprinkled and rammed in the charge. Then he took the bullet
and, before inserting it, held it in two fingers in front of the
candle.

“Why are you looking at the bullet?” asked Pyotr Ilyitch, watching him
with uneasy curiosity.

“Oh, a fancy. Why, if you meant to put that bullet in your brain, would
you look at it or not?”

“Why look at it?”

“It’s going into my brain, so it’s interesting to look and see what
it’s like. But that’s foolishness, a moment’s foolishness. Now that’s
done,” he added, putting in the bullet and driving it home with the
ramrod. “Pyotr Ilyitch, my dear fellow, that’s nonsense, all nonsense,
and if only you knew what nonsense! Give me a little piece of paper
now.”

“Here’s some paper.”

“No, a clean new piece, writing-paper. That’s right.”

And taking a pen from the table, Mitya rapidly wrote two lines, folded
the paper in four, and thrust it in his waistcoat pocket. He put the
pistols in the case, locked it up, and kept it in his hand. Then he
looked at Pyotr Ilyitch with a slow, thoughtful smile.

“Now, let’s go.”

“Where are we going? No, wait a minute.... Are you thinking of putting
that bullet in your brain, perhaps?” Pyotr Ilyitch asked uneasily.

“I was fooling about the bullet! I want to live. I love life! You may
be sure of that. I love golden-haired Phœbus and his warm light....
Dear Pyotr Ilyitch, do you know how to step aside?”

“What do you mean by ‘stepping aside’?”

“Making way. Making way for a dear creature, and for one I hate. And to
let the one I hate become dear—that’s what making way means! And to say
to them: God bless you, go your way, pass on, while I—”

“While you—?”

“That’s enough, let’s go.”

“Upon my word. I’ll tell some one to prevent your going there,” said
Pyotr Ilyitch, looking at him. “What are you going to Mokroe for, now?”

“There’s a woman there, a woman. That’s enough for you. You shut up.”

“Listen, though you’re such a savage I’ve always liked you.... I feel
anxious.”

“Thanks, old fellow. I’m a savage you say. Savages, savages! That’s
what I am always saying. Savages! Why, here’s Misha! I was forgetting
him.”

Misha ran in, post-haste, with a handful of notes in change, and
reported that every one was in a bustle at the Plotnikovs’; “They’re
carrying down the bottles, and the fish, and the tea; it will all be
ready directly.” Mitya seized ten roubles and handed it to Pyotr
Ilyitch, then tossed another ten-rouble note to Misha.

“Don’t dare to do such a thing!” cried Pyotr Ilyitch. “I won’t have it
in my house, it’s a bad, demoralizing habit. Put your money away. Here,
put it here, why waste it? It would come in handy to-morrow, and I dare
say you’ll be coming to me to borrow ten roubles again. Why do you keep
putting the notes in your side-pocket? Ah, you’ll lose them!”

“I say, my dear fellow, let’s go to Mokroe together.”

“What should I go for?”

“I say, let’s open a bottle at once, and drink to life! I want to
drink, and especially to drink with you. I’ve never drunk with you,
have I?”

“Very well, we can go to the ‘Metropolis.’ I was just going there.”

“I haven’t time for that. Let’s drink at the Plotnikovs’, in the back
room. Shall I ask you a riddle?”

“Ask away.”

Mitya took the piece of paper out of his waistcoat pocket, unfolded it
and showed it. In a large, distinct hand was written: “I punish myself
for my whole life, my whole life I punish!”

“I will certainly speak to some one, I’ll go at once,” said Pyotr
Ilyitch, after reading the paper.

“You won’t have time, dear boy, come and have a drink. March!”

Plotnikov’s shop was at the corner of the street, next door but one to
Pyotr Ilyitch’s. It was the largest grocery shop in our town, and by no
means a bad one, belonging to some rich merchants. They kept everything
that could be got in a Petersburg shop, grocery of all sort, wines
“bottled by the brothers Eliseyev,” fruits, cigars, tea, coffee, sugar,
and so on. There were three shop-assistants and two errand boys always
employed. Though our part of the country had grown poorer, the
landowners had gone away, and trade had got worse, yet the grocery
stores flourished as before, every year with increasing prosperity;
there were plenty of purchasers for their goods.

They were awaiting Mitya with impatience in the shop. They had vivid
recollections of how he had bought, three or four weeks ago, wine and
goods of all sorts to the value of several hundred roubles, paid for in
cash (they would never have let him have anything on credit, of
course). They remembered that then, as now, he had had a bundle of
hundred-rouble notes in his hand, and had scattered them at random,
without bargaining, without reflecting, or caring to reflect what use
so much wine and provisions would be to him. The story was told all
over the town that, driving off then with Grushenka to Mokroe, he had
“spent three thousand in one night and the following day, and had come
back from the spree without a penny.” He had picked up a whole troop of
gypsies (encamped in our neighborhood at the time), who for two days
got money without stint out of him while he was drunk, and drank
expensive wine without stint. People used to tell, laughing at Mitya,
how he had given champagne to grimy-handed peasants, and feasted the
village women and girls on sweets and Strasburg pies. Though to laugh
at Mitya to his face was rather a risky proceeding, there was much
laughter behind his back, especially in the tavern, at his own
ingenuous public avowal that all he had got out of Grushenka by this
“escapade” was “permission to kiss her foot, and that was the utmost
she had allowed him.”

By the time Mitya and Pyotr Ilyitch reached the shop, they found a cart
with three horses harnessed abreast with bells, and with Andrey, the
driver, ready waiting for Mitya at the entrance. In the shop they had
almost entirely finished packing one box of provisions, and were only
waiting for Mitya’s arrival to nail it down and put it in the cart.
Pyotr Ilyitch was astounded.

“Where did this cart come from in such a hurry?” he asked Mitya.

“I met Andrey as I ran to you, and told him to drive straight here to
the shop. There’s no time to lose. Last time I drove with Timofey, but
Timofey now has gone on before me with the witch. Shall we be very
late, Andrey?”

“They’ll only get there an hour at most before us, not even that maybe.
I got Timofey ready to start. I know how he’ll go. Their pace won’t be
ours, Dmitri Fyodorovitch. How could it be? They won’t get there an
hour earlier!” Andrey, a lanky, red-haired, middle-aged driver, wearing
a full-skirted coat, and with a kaftan on his arm, replied warmly.

“Fifty roubles for vodka if we’re only an hour behind them.”

“I warrant the time, Dmitri Fyodorovitch. Ech, they won’t be half an
hour before us, let alone an hour.”

Though Mitya bustled about seeing after things, he gave his orders
strangely, as it were disconnectedly, and inconsecutively. He began a
sentence and forgot the end of it. Pyotr Ilyitch found himself obliged
to come to the rescue.

“Four hundred roubles’ worth, not less than four hundred roubles’
worth, just as it was then,” commanded Mitya. “Four dozen champagne,
not a bottle less.”

“What do you want with so much? What’s it for? Stay!” cried Pyotr
Ilyitch. “What’s this box? What’s in it? Surely there isn’t four
hundred roubles’ worth here?”

The officious shopmen began explaining with oily politeness that the
first box contained only half a dozen bottles of champagne, and only
“the most indispensable articles,” such as savories, sweets, toffee,
etc. But the main part of the goods ordered would be packed and sent
off, as on the previous occasion, in a special cart also with three
horses traveling at full speed, so that it would arrive not more than
an hour later than Dmitri Fyodorovitch himself.

“Not more than an hour! Not more than an hour! And put in more toffee
and fondants. The girls there are so fond of it,” Mitya insisted hotly.

“The fondants are all right. But what do you want with four dozen of
champagne? One would be enough,” said Pyotr Ilyitch, almost angry. He
began bargaining, asking for a bill of the goods, and refused to be
satisfied. But he only succeeded in saving a hundred roubles. In the
end it was agreed that only three hundred roubles’ worth should be
sent.

“Well, you may go to the devil!” cried Pyotr Ilyitch, on second
thoughts. “What’s it to do with me? Throw away your money, since it’s
cost you nothing.”

“This way, my economist, this way, don’t be angry.” Mitya drew him into
a room at the back of the shop. “They’ll give us a bottle here
directly. We’ll taste it. Ech, Pyotr Ilyitch, come along with me, for
you’re a nice fellow, the sort I like.”

Mitya sat down on a wicker chair, before a little table, covered with a
dirty dinner-napkin. Pyotr Ilyitch sat down opposite, and the champagne
soon appeared, and oysters were suggested to the gentlemen.
“First-class oysters, the last lot in.”

“Hang the oysters. I don’t eat them. And we don’t need anything,” cried
Pyotr Ilyitch, almost angrily.

“There’s no time for oysters,” said Mitya. “And I’m not hungry. Do you
know, friend,” he said suddenly, with feeling, “I never have liked all
this disorder.”

“Who does like it? Three dozen of champagne for peasants, upon my word,
that’s enough to make any one angry!”

“That’s not what I mean. I’m talking of a higher order. There’s no
order in me, no higher order. But ... that’s all over. There’s no need
to grieve about it. It’s too late, damn it! My whole life has been
disorder, and one must set it in order. Is that a pun, eh?”

“You’re raving, not making puns!”

“Glory be to God in Heaven,
Glory be to God in me....


“That verse came from my heart once, it’s not a verse, but a tear.... I
made it myself ... not while I was pulling the captain’s beard,
though....”

“Why do you bring him in all of a sudden?”

“Why do I bring him in? Foolery! All things come to an end; all things
are made equal. That’s the long and short of it.”

“You know, I keep thinking of your pistols.”

“That’s all foolery, too! Drink, and don’t be fanciful. I love life.
I’ve loved life too much, shamefully much. Enough! Let’s drink to life,
dear boy, I propose the toast. Why am I pleased with myself? I’m a
scoundrel, but I’m satisfied with myself. And yet I’m tortured by the
thought that I’m a scoundrel, but satisfied with myself. I bless the
creation. I’m ready to bless God and His creation directly, but ... I
must kill one noxious insect for fear it should crawl and spoil life
for others.... Let us drink to life, dear brother. What can be more
precious than life? Nothing! To life, and to one queen of queens!”

“Let’s drink to life and to your queen, too, if you like.”

They drank a glass each. Although Mitya was excited and expansive, yet
he was melancholy, too. It was as though some heavy, overwhelming
anxiety were weighing upon him.

“Misha ... here’s your Misha come! Misha, come here, my boy, drink this
glass to Phœbus, the golden-haired, of to-morrow morn....”

“What are you giving it him for?” cried Pyotr Ilyitch, irritably.

“Yes, yes, yes, let me! I want to!”

“E—ech!”

Misha emptied the glass, bowed, and ran out.

“He’ll remember it afterwards,” Mitya remarked. “Woman, I love woman!
What is woman? The queen of creation! My heart is sad, my heart is sad,
Pyotr Ilyitch. Do you remember Hamlet? ‘I am very sorry, good Horatio!
Alas, poor Yorick!’ Perhaps that’s me, Yorick? Yes, I’m Yorick now, and
a skull afterwards.”

Pyotr Ilyitch listened in silence. Mitya, too, was silent for a while.

“What dog’s that you’ve got here?” he asked the shopman, casually,
noticing a pretty little lap-dog with dark eyes, sitting in the corner.

“It belongs to Varvara Alexyevna, the mistress,” answered the clerk.
“She brought it and forgot it here. It must be taken back to her.”

“I saw one like it ... in the regiment ...” murmured Mitya dreamily,
“only that one had its hind leg broken.... By the way, Pyotr Ilyitch, I
wanted to ask you: have you ever stolen anything in your life?”

“What a question!”

“Oh, I didn’t mean anything. From somebody’s pocket, you know. I don’t
mean government money, every one steals that, and no doubt you do,
too....”

“You go to the devil.”

“I’m talking of other people’s money. Stealing straight out of a
pocket? Out of a purse, eh?”

“I stole twenty copecks from my mother when I was nine years old. I
took it off the table on the sly, and held it tight in my hand.”

“Well, and what happened?”

“Oh, nothing. I kept it three days, then I felt ashamed, confessed, and
gave it back.”

“And what then?”

“Naturally I was whipped. But why do you ask? Have you stolen
something?”

“I have,” said Mitya, winking slyly.

“What have you stolen?” inquired Pyotr Ilyitch curiously.

“I stole twenty copecks from my mother when I was nine years old, and
gave it back three days after.”

As he said this, Mitya suddenly got up.

“Dmitri Fyodorovitch, won’t you come now?” called Andrey from the door
of the shop.

“Are you ready? We’ll come!” Mitya started. “A few more last words
and—Andrey, a glass of vodka at starting. Give him some brandy as well!
That box” (the one with the pistols) “put under my seat. Good-by, Pyotr
Ilyitch, don’t remember evil against me.”

“But you’re coming back to-morrow?”

“Of course.”

“Will you settle the little bill now?” cried the clerk, springing
forward.

“Oh, yes, the bill. Of course.”

He pulled the bundle of notes out of his pocket again, picked out three
hundred roubles, threw them on the counter, and ran hurriedly out of
the shop. Every one followed him out, bowing and wishing him good luck.
Andrey, coughing from the brandy he had just swallowed, jumped up on
the box. But Mitya was only just taking his seat when suddenly to his
surprise he saw Fenya before him. She ran up panting, clasped her hands
before him with a cry, and plumped down at his feet.

“Dmitri Fyodorovitch, dear good Dmitri Fyodorovitch, don’t harm my
mistress. And it was I told you all about it.... And don’t murder him,
he came first, he’s hers! He’ll marry Agrafena Alexandrovna now. That’s
why he’s come back from Siberia. Dmitri Fyodorovitch, dear, don’t take
a fellow creature’s life!”

“Tut—tut—tut! That’s it, is it? So you’re off there to make trouble!”
muttered Pyotr Ilyitch. “Now, it’s all clear, as clear as daylight.
Dmitri Fyodorovitch, give me your pistols at once if you mean to behave
like a man,” he shouted aloud to Mitya. “Do you hear, Dmitri?”

“The pistols? Wait a bit, brother, I’ll throw them into the pool on the
road,” answered Mitya. “Fenya, get up, don’t kneel to me. Mitya won’t
hurt any one, the silly fool won’t hurt any one again. But I say,
Fenya,” he shouted, after having taken his seat. “I hurt you just now,
so forgive me and have pity on me, forgive a scoundrel.... But it
doesn’t matter if you don’t. It’s all the same now. Now then, Andrey,
look alive, fly along full speed!”

Andrey whipped up the horses, and the bells began ringing.

“Good-by, Pyotr Ilyitch! My last tear is for you!...”

“He’s not drunk, but he keeps babbling like a lunatic,” Pyotr Ilyitch
thought as he watched him go. He had half a mind to stay and see the
cart packed with the remaining wines and provisions, knowing that they
would deceive and defraud Mitya. But, suddenly feeling vexed with
himself, he turned away with a curse and went to the tavern to play
billiards.

“He’s a fool, though he’s a good fellow,” he muttered as he went. “I’ve
heard of that officer, Grushenka’s former flame. Well, if he has turned
up.... Ech, those pistols! Damn it all! I’m not his nurse! Let them do
what they like! Besides, it’ll all come to nothing. They’re a set of
brawlers, that’s all. They’ll drink and fight, fight and make friends
again. They are not men who do anything real. What does he mean by ‘I’m
stepping aside, I’m punishing myself?’ It’ll come to nothing! He’s
shouted such phrases a thousand times, drunk, in the taverns. But now
he’s not drunk. ‘Drunk in spirit’—they’re fond of fine phrases, the
villains. Am I his nurse? He must have been fighting, his face was all
over blood. With whom? I shall find out at the ‘Metropolis.’ And his
handkerchief was soaked in blood.... It’s still lying on my floor....
Hang it!”

He reached the tavern in a bad humor and at once made up a game. The
game cheered him. He played a second game, and suddenly began telling
one of his partners that Dmitri Karamazov had come in for some cash
again—something like three thousand roubles, and had gone to Mokroe
again to spend it with Grushenka.... This news roused singular interest
in his listeners. They all spoke of it, not laughing, but with a
strange gravity. They left off playing.

“Three thousand? But where can he have got three thousand?”

Questions were asked. The story of Madame Hohlakov’s present was
received with skepticism.

“Hasn’t he robbed his old father?—that’s the question.”

“Three thousand! There’s something odd about it.”

“He boasted aloud that he would kill his father; we all heard him,
here. And it was three thousand he talked about ...”

Pyotr Ilyitch listened. All at once he became short and dry in his
answers. He said not a word about the blood on Mitya’s face and hands,
though he had meant to speak of it at first.

They began a third game, and by degrees the talk about Mitya died away.
But by the end of the third game, Pyotr Ilyitch felt no more desire for
billiards; he laid down the cue, and without having supper as he had
intended, he walked out of the tavern. When he reached the market-place
he stood still in perplexity, wondering at himself. He realized that
what he wanted was to go to Fyodor Pavlovitch’s and find out if
anything had happened there. “On account of some stupid nonsense—as
it’s sure to turn out—am I going to wake up the household and make a
scandal? Fooh! damn it, is it my business to look after them?”

In a very bad humor he went straight home, and suddenly remembered
Fenya. “Damn it all! I ought to have questioned her just now,” he
thought with vexation, “I should have heard everything.” And the desire
to speak to her, and so find out, became so pressing and importunate
that when he was half-way home he turned abruptly and went towards the
house where Grushenka lodged. Going up to the gate he knocked. The
sound of the knock in the silence of the night sobered him and made him
feel annoyed. And no one answered him; every one in the house was
asleep.

“And I shall be making a fuss!” he thought, with a feeling of positive
discomfort. But instead of going away altogether, he fell to knocking
again with all his might, filling the street with clamor.

“Not coming? Well, I will knock them up, I will!” he muttered at each
knock, fuming at himself, but at the same time he redoubled his knocks
on the gate.




Chapter VI.
“I Am Coming, Too!”


But Dmitri Fyodorovitch was speeding along the road. It was a little
more than twenty versts to Mokroe, but Andrey’s three horses galloped
at such a pace that the distance might be covered in an hour and a
quarter. The swift motion revived Mitya. The air was fresh and cool,
there were big stars shining in the sky. It was the very night, and
perhaps the very hour, in which Alyosha fell on the earth, and
rapturously swore to love it for ever and ever.

All was confusion, confusion, in Mitya’s soul, but although many things
were goading his heart, at that moment his whole being was yearning for
her, his queen, to whom he was flying to look on her for the last time.
One thing I can say for certain; his heart did not waver for one
instant. I shall perhaps not be believed when I say that this jealous
lover felt not the slightest jealousy of this new rival, who seemed to
have sprung out of the earth. If any other had appeared on the scene,
he would have been jealous at once, and would perhaps have stained his
fierce hands with blood again. But as he flew through the night, he
felt no envy, no hostility even, for the man who had been her first
lover.... It is true he had not yet seen him.

“Here there was no room for dispute: it was her right and his; this was
her first love which, after five years, she had not forgotten; so she
had loved him only for those five years, and I, how do I come in? What
right have I? Step aside, Mitya, and make way! What am I now? Now
everything is over apart from the officer—even if he had not appeared,
everything would be over ...”

These words would roughly have expressed his feelings, if he had been
capable of reasoning. But he could not reason at that moment. His
present plan of action had arisen without reasoning. At Fenya’s first
words, it had sprung from feeling, and been adopted in a flash, with
all its consequences. And yet, in spite of his resolution, there was
confusion in his soul, an agonizing confusion: his resolution did not
give him peace. There was so much behind that tortured him. And it
seemed strange to him, at moments, to think that he had written his own
sentence of death with pen and paper: “I punish myself,” and the paper
was lying there in his pocket, ready; the pistol was loaded; he had
already resolved how, next morning, he would meet the first warm ray of
“golden-haired Phœbus.”

And yet he could not be quit of the past, of all that he had left
behind and that tortured him. He felt that miserably, and the thought
of it sank into his heart with despair. There was one moment when he
felt an impulse to stop Andrey, to jump out of the cart, to pull out
his loaded pistol, and to make an end of everything without waiting for
the dawn. But that moment flew by like a spark. The horses galloped on,
“devouring space,” and as he drew near his goal, again the thought of
her, of her alone, took more and more complete possession of his soul,
chasing away the fearful images that had been haunting it. Oh, how he
longed to look upon her, if only for a moment, if only from a distance!

“She’s now with _him_,” he thought, “now I shall see what she looks
like with him, her first love, and that’s all I want.” Never had this
woman, who was such a fateful influence in his life, aroused such love
in his breast, such new and unknown feeling, surprising even to
himself, a feeling tender to devoutness, to self-effacement before her!
“I will efface myself!” he said, in a rush of almost hysterical
ecstasy.

They had been galloping nearly an hour. Mitya was silent, and though
Andrey was, as a rule, a talkative peasant, he did not utter a word,
either. He seemed afraid to talk, he only whipped up smartly his three
lean, but mettlesome, bay horses. Suddenly Mitya cried out in horrible
anxiety:

“Andrey! What if they’re asleep?”

This thought fell upon him like a blow. It had not occurred to him
before.

“It may well be that they’re gone to bed, by now, Dmitri Fyodorovitch.”

Mitya frowned as though in pain. Yes, indeed ... he was rushing there
... with such feelings ... while they were asleep ... she was asleep,
perhaps, there too.... An angry feeling surged up in his heart.

“Drive on, Andrey! Whip them up! Look alive!” he cried, beside himself.

“But maybe they’re not in bed!” Andrey went on after a pause. “Timofey
said they were a lot of them there—”

“At the station?”

“Not at the posting-station, but at Plastunov’s, at the inn, where they
let out horses, too.”

“I know. So you say there are a lot of them? How’s that? Who are they?”
cried Mitya, greatly dismayed at this unexpected news.

“Well, Timofey was saying they’re all gentlefolk. Two from our town—who
they are I can’t say—and there are two others, strangers, maybe more
besides. I didn’t ask particularly. They’ve set to playing cards, so
Timofey said.”

“Cards?”

“So, maybe they’re not in bed if they’re at cards. It’s most likely not
more than eleven.”

“Quicker, Andrey! Quicker!” Mitya cried again, nervously.

“May I ask you something, sir?” said Andrey, after a pause. “Only I’m
afraid of angering you, sir.”

“What is it?”

“Why, Fenya threw herself at your feet just now, and begged you not to
harm her mistress, and some one else, too ... so you see, sir— It’s I
am taking you there ... forgive me, sir, it’s my conscience ... maybe
it’s stupid of me to speak of it—”

Mitya suddenly seized him by the shoulders from behind.

“Are you a driver?” he asked frantically.

“Yes, sir.”

“Then you know that one has to make way. What would you say to a driver
who wouldn’t make way for any one, but would just drive on and crush
people? No, a driver mustn’t run over people. One can’t run over a man.
One can’t spoil people’s lives. And if you have spoilt a life—punish
yourself.... If only you’ve spoilt, if only you’ve ruined any one’s
life—punish yourself and go away.”

These phrases burst from Mitya almost hysterically. Though Andrey was
surprised at him, he kept up the conversation.

“That’s right, Dmitri Fyodorovitch, you’re quite right, one mustn’t
crush or torment a man, or any kind of creature, for every creature is
created by God. Take a horse, for instance, for some folks, even among
us drivers, drive anyhow. Nothing will restrain them, they just force
it along.”

“To hell?” Mitya interrupted, and went off into his abrupt, short
laugh. “Andrey, simple soul,” he seized him by the shoulders again,
“tell me, will Dmitri Fyodorovitch Karamazov go to hell, or not, what
do you think?”

“I don’t know, darling, it depends on you, for you are ... you see,
sir, when the Son of God was nailed on the Cross and died, He went
straight down to hell from the Cross, and set free all sinners that
were in agony. And the devil groaned, because he thought that he would
get no more sinners in hell. And God said to him, then, ‘Don’t groan,
for you shall have all the mighty of the earth, the rulers, the chief
judges, and the rich men, and shall be filled up as you have been in
all the ages till I come again.’ Those were His very words ...”

“A peasant legend! Capital! Whip up the left, Andrey!”

“So you see, sir, who it is hell’s for,” said Andrey, whipping up the
left horse, “but you’re like a little child ... that’s how we look on
you ... and though you’re hasty-tempered, sir, yet God will forgive you
for your kind heart.”

“And you, do you forgive me, Andrey?”

“What should I forgive you for, sir? You’ve never done me any harm.”

“No, for every one, for every one, you here alone, on the road, will
you forgive me for every one? Speak, simple peasant heart!”

“Oh, sir! I feel afraid of driving you, your talk is so strange.”

But Mitya did not hear. He was frantically praying and muttering to
himself.

“Lord, receive me, with all my lawlessness, and do not condemn me. Let
me pass by Thy judgment ... do not condemn me, for I have condemned
myself, do not condemn me, for I love Thee, O Lord. I am a wretch, but
I love Thee. If Thou sendest me to hell, I shall love Thee there, and
from there I shall cry out that I love Thee for ever and ever.... But
let me love to the end.... Here and now for just five hours ... till
the first light of Thy day ... for I love the queen of my soul ... I
love her and I cannot help loving her. Thou seest my whole heart.... I
shall gallop up, I shall fall before her and say, ‘You are right to
pass on and leave me. Farewell and forget your victim ... never fret
yourself about me!’”

“Mokroe!” cried Andrey, pointing ahead with his whip.

Through the pale darkness of the night loomed a solid black mass of
buildings, flung down, as it were, in the vast plain. The village of
Mokroe numbered two thousand inhabitants, but at that hour all were
asleep, and only here and there a few lights still twinkled.

“Drive on, Andrey, I come!” Mitya exclaimed, feverishly.

“They’re not asleep,” said Andrey again, pointing with his whip to the
Plastunovs’ inn, which was at the entrance to the village. The six
windows, looking on the street, were all brightly lighted up.

“They’re not asleep,” Mitya repeated joyously. “Quicker, Andrey!
Gallop! Drive up with a dash! Set the bells ringing! Let all know that
I have come. I’m coming! I’m coming, too!”

Andrey lashed his exhausted team into a gallop, drove with a dash and
pulled up his steaming, panting horses at the high flight of steps.

Mitya jumped out of the cart just as the innkeeper, on his way to bed,
peeped out from the steps curious to see who had arrived.

“Trifon Borissovitch, is that you?”

The innkeeper bent down, looked intently, ran down the steps, and
rushed up to the guest with obsequious delight.

“Dmitri Fyodorovitch, your honor! Do I see you again?”

Trifon Borissovitch was a thick-set, healthy peasant, of middle height,
with a rather fat face. His expression was severe and uncompromising,
especially with the peasants of Mokroe, but he had the power of
assuming the most obsequious countenance, when he had an inkling that
it was to his interest. He dressed in Russian style, with a shirt
buttoning down on one side, and a full-skirted coat. He had saved a
good sum of money, but was for ever dreaming of improving his position.
More than half the peasants were in his clutches, every one in the
neighborhood was in debt to him. From the neighboring landowners he
bought and rented lands which were worked by the peasants, in payment
of debts which they could never shake off. He was a widower, with four
grown-up daughters. One of them was already a widow and lived in the
inn with her two children, his grandchildren, and worked for him like a
charwoman. Another of his daughters was married to a petty official,
and in one of the rooms of the inn, on the wall could be seen, among
the family photographs, a miniature photograph of this official in
uniform and official epaulettes. The two younger daughters used to wear
fashionable blue or green dresses, fitting tight at the back, and with
trains a yard long, on Church holidays or when they went to pay visits.
But next morning they would get up at dawn, as usual, sweep out the
rooms with a birch-broom, empty the slops, and clean up after lodgers.

In spite of the thousands of roubles he had saved, Trifon Borissovitch
was very fond of emptying the pockets of a drunken guest, and
remembering that not a month ago he had, in twenty-four hours, made two
if not three hundred roubles out of Dmitri, when he had come on his
escapade with Grushenka, he met him now with eager welcome, scenting
his prey the moment Mitya drove up to the steps.

“Dmitri Fyodorovitch, dear sir, we see you once more!”

“Stay, Trifon Borissovitch,” began Mitya, “first and foremost, where is
she?”

“Agrafena Alexandrovna?” The inn-keeper understood at once, looking
sharply into Mitya’s face. “She’s here, too ...”

“With whom? With whom?”

“Some strangers. One is an official gentleman, a Pole, to judge from
his speech. He sent the horses for her from here; and there’s another
with him, a friend of his, or a fellow traveler, there’s no telling.
They’re dressed like civilians.”

“Well, are they feasting? Have they money?”

“Poor sort of a feast! Nothing to boast of, Dmitri Fyodorovitch.”

“Nothing to boast of? And who are the others?”

“They’re two gentlemen from the town.... They’ve come back from
Tcherny, and are putting up here. One’s quite a young gentleman, a
relative of Mr. Miüsov, he must be, but I’ve forgotten his name ... and
I expect you know the other, too, a gentleman called Maximov. He’s been
on a pilgrimage, so he says, to the monastery in the town. He’s
traveling with this young relation of Mr. Miüsov.”

“Is that all?”

“Yes.”

“Stay, listen, Trifon Borissovitch. Tell me the chief thing: What of
her? How is she?”

“Oh, she’s only just come. She’s sitting with them.”

“Is she cheerful? Is she laughing?”

“No, I think she’s not laughing much. She’s sitting quite dull. She’s
combing the young gentleman’s hair.”

“The Pole—the officer?”

“He’s not young, and he’s not an officer, either. Not him, sir. It’s
the young gentleman that’s Mr. Miüsov’s relation ... I’ve forgotten his
name.”

“Kalganov.”

“That’s it, Kalganov!”

“All right. I’ll see for myself. Are they playing cards?”

“They have been playing, but they’ve left off. They’ve been drinking
tea, the official gentleman asked for liqueurs.”

“Stay, Trifon Borissovitch, stay, my good soul, I’ll see for myself.
Now answer one more question: are the gypsies here?”

“You can’t have the gypsies now, Dmitri Fyodorovitch. The authorities
have sent them away. But we’ve Jews that play the cymbals and the
fiddle in the village, so one might send for them. They’d come.”

“Send for them. Certainly send for them!” cried Mitya. “And you can get
the girls together as you did then, Marya especially, Stepanida, too,
and Arina. Two hundred roubles for a chorus!”

“Oh, for a sum like that I can get all the village together, though by
now they’re asleep. Are the peasants here worth such kindness, Dmitri
Fyodorovitch, or the girls either? To spend a sum like that on such
coarseness and rudeness! What’s the good of giving a peasant a cigar to
smoke, the stinking ruffian! And the girls are all lousy. Besides, I’ll
get my daughters up for nothing, let alone a sum like that. They’ve
only just gone to bed, I’ll give them a kick and set them singing for
you. You gave the peasants champagne to drink the other day, e—ech!”

For all his pretended compassion for Mitya, Trifon Borissovitch had
hidden half a dozen bottles of champagne on that last occasion, and had
picked up a hundred-rouble note under the table, and it had remained in
his clutches.

“Trifon Borissovitch, I sent more than one thousand flying last time I
was here. Do you remember?”

“You did send it flying. I may well remember. You must have left three
thousand behind you.”

“Well, I’ve come to do the same again, do you see?”

And he pulled out his roll of notes, and held them up before the
innkeeper’s nose.

“Now, listen and remember. In an hour’s time the wine will arrive,
savories, pies, and sweets—bring them all up at once. That box Andrey
has got is to be brought up at once, too. Open it, and hand champagne
immediately. And the girls, we must have the girls, Marya especially.”

He turned to the cart and pulled out the box of pistols.

“Here, Andrey, let’s settle. Here’s fifteen roubles for the drive, and
fifty for vodka ... for your readiness, for your love.... Remember
Karamazov!”

“I’m afraid, sir,” faltered Andrey. “Give me five roubles extra, but
more I won’t take. Trifon Borissovitch, bear witness. Forgive my
foolish words ...”

“What are you afraid of?” asked Mitya, scanning him. “Well, go to the
devil, if that’s it!” he cried, flinging him five roubles. “Now, Trifon
Borissovitch, take me up quietly and let me first get a look at them,
so that they don’t see me. Where are they? In the blue room?”

Trifon Borissovitch looked apprehensively at Mitya, but at once
obediently did his bidding. Leading him into the passage, he went
himself into the first large room, adjoining that in which the visitors
were sitting, and took the light away. Then he stealthily led Mitya in,
and put him in a corner in the dark, whence he could freely watch the
company without being seen. But Mitya did not look long, and, indeed,
he could not see them, he saw her, his heart throbbed violently, and
all was dark before his eyes.

She was sitting sideways to the table in a low chair, and beside her,
on the sofa, was the pretty youth, Kalganov. She was holding his hand
and seemed to be laughing, while he, seeming vexed and not looking at
her, was saying something in a loud voice to Maximov, who sat the other
side of the table, facing Grushenka. Maximov was laughing violently at
something. On the sofa sat _he_, and on a chair by the sofa there was
another stranger. The one on the sofa was lolling backwards, smoking a
pipe, and Mitya had an impression of a stoutish, broad-faced, short
little man, who was apparently angry about something. His friend, the
other stranger, struck Mitya as extraordinarily tall, but he could make
out nothing more. He caught his breath. He could not bear it for a
minute, he put the pistol-case on a chest, and with a throbbing heart
he walked, feeling cold all over, straight into the blue room to face
the company.

“Aie!” shrieked Grushenka, the first to notice him.




Chapter VII.
The First And Rightful Lover


With his long, rapid strides, Mitya walked straight up to the table.

“Gentlemen,” he said in a loud voice, almost shouting, yet stammering
at every word, “I ... I’m all right! Don’t be afraid!” he exclaimed,
“I—there’s nothing the matter,” he turned suddenly to Grushenka, who
had shrunk back in her chair towards Kalganov, and clasped his hand
tightly. “I ... I’m coming, too. I’m here till morning. Gentlemen, may
I stay with you till morning? Only till morning, for the last time, in
this same room?”

So he finished, turning to the fat little man, with the pipe, sitting
on the sofa. The latter removed his pipe from his lips with dignity and
observed severely:

“_Panie_, we’re here in private. There are other rooms.”

“Why, it’s you, Dmitri Fyodorovitch! What do you mean?” answered
Kalganov suddenly. “Sit down with us. How are you?”

“Delighted to see you, dear ... and precious fellow, I always thought a
lot of you.” Mitya responded, joyfully and eagerly, at once holding out
his hand across the table.

“Aie! How tight you squeeze! You’ve quite broken my fingers,” laughed
Kalganov.

“He always squeezes like that, always,” Grushenka put in gayly, with a
timid smile, seeming suddenly convinced from Mitya’s face that he was
not going to make a scene. She was watching him with intense curiosity
and still some uneasiness. She was impressed by something about him,
and indeed the last thing she expected of him was that he would come in
and speak like this at such a moment.

“Good evening,” Maximov ventured blandly on the left. Mitya rushed up
to him, too.

“Good evening. You’re here, too! How glad I am to find you here, too!
Gentlemen, gentlemen, I—” (He addressed the Polish gentleman with the
pipe again, evidently taking him for the most important person
present.) “I flew here.... I wanted to spend my last day, my last hour
in this room, in this very room ... where I, too, adored ... my
queen.... Forgive me, _panie_,” he cried wildly, “I flew here and
vowed— Oh, don’t be afraid, it’s my last night! Let’s drink to our good
understanding. They’ll bring the wine at once.... I brought this with
me.” (Something made him pull out his bundle of notes.) “Allow me,
_panie_! I want to have music, singing, a revel, as we had before. But
the worm, the unnecessary worm, will crawl away, and there’ll be no
more of him. I will commemorate my day of joy on my last night.”

He was almost choking. There was so much, so much he wanted to say, but
strange exclamations were all that came from his lips. The Pole gazed
fixedly at him, at the bundle of notes in his hand; looked at
Grushenka, and was in evident perplexity.

“If my suverin lady is permitting—” he was beginning.

“What does ‘suverin’ mean? ‘Sovereign,’ I suppose?” interrupted
Grushenka. “I can’t help laughing at you, the way you talk. Sit down,
Mitya, what are you talking about? Don’t frighten us, please. You won’t
frighten us, will you? If you won’t, I am glad to see you ...”

“Me, me frighten you?” cried Mitya, flinging up his hands. “Oh, pass me
by, go your way, I won’t hinder you!...”

And suddenly he surprised them all, and no doubt himself as well, by
flinging himself on a chair, and bursting into tears, turning his head
away to the opposite wall, while his arms clasped the back of the chair
tight, as though embracing it.

“Come, come, what a fellow you are!” cried Grushenka reproachfully.
“That’s just how he comes to see me—he begins talking, and I can’t make
out what he means. He cried like that once before, and now he’s crying
again! It’s shameful! Why are you crying? _As though you had anything
to cry for!_” she added enigmatically, emphasizing each word with some
irritability.

“I ... I’m not crying.... Well, good evening!” He instantly turned
round in his chair, and suddenly laughed, not his abrupt wooden laugh,
but a long, quivering, inaudible nervous laugh.

“Well, there you are again.... Come, cheer up, cheer up!” Grushenka
said to him persuasively. “I’m very glad you’ve come, very glad, Mitya,
do you hear, I’m very glad! I want him to stay here with us,” she said
peremptorily, addressing the whole company, though her words were
obviously meant for the man sitting on the sofa. “I wish it, I wish it!
And if he goes away I shall go, too!” she added with flashing eyes.

“What my queen commands is law!” pronounced the Pole, gallantly kissing
Grushenka’s hand. “I beg you, _panie_, to join our company,” he added
politely, addressing Mitya.

Mitya was jumping up with the obvious intention of delivering another
tirade, but the words did not come.

“Let’s drink, _panie_,” he blurted out instead of making a speech.
Every one laughed.

“Good heavens! I thought he was going to begin again!” Grushenka
exclaimed nervously. “Do you hear, Mitya,” she went on insistently,
“don’t prance about, but it’s nice you’ve brought the champagne. I want
some myself, and I can’t bear liqueurs. And best of all, you’ve come
yourself. We were fearfully dull here.... You’ve come for a spree
again, I suppose? But put your money in your pocket. Where did you get
such a lot?”

Mitya had been, all this time, holding in his hand the crumpled bundle
of notes on which the eyes of all, especially of the Poles, were fixed.
In confusion he thrust them hurriedly into his pocket. He flushed. At
that moment the innkeeper brought in an uncorked bottle of champagne,
and glasses on a tray. Mitya snatched up the bottle, but he was so
bewildered that he did not know what to do with it. Kalganov took it
from him and poured out the champagne.

“Another! Another bottle!” Mitya cried to the innkeeper, and,
forgetting to clink glasses with the Pole whom he had so solemnly
invited to drink to their good understanding, he drank off his glass
without waiting for any one else. His whole countenance suddenly
changed. The solemn and tragic expression with which he had entered
vanished completely, and a look of something childlike came into his
face. He seemed to have become suddenly gentle and subdued. He looked
shyly and happily at every one, with a continual nervous little laugh,
and the blissful expression of a dog who has done wrong, been punished,
and forgiven. He seemed to have forgotten everything, and was looking
round at every one with a childlike smile of delight. He looked at
Grushenka, laughing continually, and bringing his chair close up to
her. By degrees he had gained some idea of the two Poles, though he had
formed no definite conception of them yet.

The Pole on the sofa struck him by his dignified demeanor and his
Polish accent; and, above all, by his pipe. “Well, what of it? It’s a
good thing he’s smoking a pipe,” he reflected. The Pole’s puffy,
middle-aged face, with its tiny nose and two very thin, pointed, dyed
and impudent-looking mustaches, had not so far roused the faintest
doubts in Mitya. He was not even particularly struck by the Pole’s
absurd wig made in Siberia, with love-locks foolishly combed forward
over the temples. “I suppose it’s all right since he wears a wig,” he
went on, musing blissfully. The other, younger Pole, who was staring
insolently and defiantly at the company and listening to the
conversation with silent contempt, still only impressed Mitya by his
great height, which was in striking contrast to the Pole on the sofa.
“If he stood up he’d be six foot three.” The thought flitted through
Mitya’s mind. It occurred to him, too, that this Pole must be the
friend of the other, as it were, a “bodyguard,” and no doubt the big
Pole was at the disposal of the little Pole with the pipe. But this all
seemed to Mitya perfectly right and not to be questioned. In his mood
of doglike submissiveness all feeling of rivalry had died away.

Grushenka’s mood and the enigmatic tone of some of her words he
completely failed to grasp. All he understood, with thrilling heart,
was that she was kind to him, that she had forgiven him, and made him
sit by her. He was beside himself with delight, watching her sip her
glass of champagne. The silence of the company seemed somehow to strike
him, however, and he looked round at every one with expectant eyes.

“Why are we sitting here though, gentlemen? Why don’t you begin doing
something?” his smiling eyes seemed to ask.

“He keeps talking nonsense, and we were all laughing,” Kalganov began
suddenly, as though divining his thought, and pointing to Maximov.

Mitya immediately stared at Kalganov and then at Maximov.

“He’s talking nonsense?” he laughed, his short, wooden laugh, seeming
suddenly delighted at something—“ha ha!”

“Yes. Would you believe it, he will have it that all our cavalry
officers in the twenties married Polish women. That’s awful rot, isn’t
it?”

“Polish women?” repeated Mitya, perfectly ecstatic.

Kalganov was well aware of Mitya’s attitude to Grushenka, and he
guessed about the Pole, too, but that did not so much interest him,
perhaps did not interest him at all; what he was interested in was
Maximov. He had come here with Maximov by chance, and he met the Poles
here at the inn for the first time in his life. Grushenka he knew
before, and had once been with some one to see her; but she had not
taken to him. But here she looked at him very affectionately: before
Mitya’s arrival, she had been making much of him, but he seemed somehow
to be unmoved by it. He was a boy, not over twenty, dressed like a
dandy, with a very charming fair-skinned face, and splendid thick,
fair hair. From his fair face looked out beautiful pale blue eyes, with
an intelligent and sometimes even deep expression, beyond his age
indeed, although the young man sometimes looked and talked quite like a
child, and was not at all ashamed of it, even when he was aware of it
himself. As a rule he was very willful, even capricious, though always
friendly. Sometimes there was something fixed and obstinate in his
expression. He would look at you and listen, seeming all the while to
be persistently dreaming over something else. Often he was listless and
lazy, at other times he would grow excited, sometimes, apparently, over
the most trivial matters.

“Only imagine, I’ve been taking him about with me for the last four
days,” he went on, indolently drawling his words, quite naturally
though, without the slightest affectation. “Ever since your brother, do
you remember, shoved him off the carriage and sent him flying. That
made me take an interest in him at the time, and I took him into the
country, but he keeps talking such rot I’m ashamed to be with him. I’m
taking him back.”

“The gentleman has not seen Polish ladies, and says what is
impossible,” the Pole with the pipe observed to Maximov.

He spoke Russian fairly well, much better, anyway, than he pretended.
If he used Russian words, he always distorted them into a Polish form.

“But I was married to a Polish lady myself,” tittered Maximov.

“But did you serve in the cavalry? You were talking about the cavalry.
Were you a cavalry officer?” put in Kalganov at once.

“Was he a cavalry officer indeed? Ha ha!” cried Mitya, listening
eagerly, and turning his inquiring eyes to each as he spoke, as though
there were no knowing what he might hear from each.

“No, you see,” Maximov turned to him. “What I mean is that those pretty
Polish ladies ... when they danced the mazurka with our Uhlans ... when
one of them dances a mazurka with a Uhlan she jumps on his knee like a
kitten ... a little white one ... and the _pan_-father and _pan_-mother
look on and allow it.... They allow it ... and next day the Uhlan comes
and offers her his hand.... That’s how it is ... offers her his hand,
he he!” Maximov ended, tittering.

“The _pan_ is a _lajdak_!” the tall Pole on the chair growled suddenly
and crossed one leg over the other. Mitya’s eye was caught by his huge
greased boot, with its thick, dirty sole. The dress of both the Poles
looked rather greasy.

“Well, now it’s _lajdak_! What’s he scolding about?” said Grushenka,
suddenly vexed.

“_Pani_ Agrippina, what the gentleman saw in Poland were servant girls,
and not ladies of good birth,” the Pole with the pipe observed to
Grushenka.

“You can reckon on that,” the tall Pole snapped contemptuously.

“What next! Let him talk! People talk, why hinder them? It makes it
cheerful,” Grushenka said crossly.

“I’m not hindering them, _pani_,” said the Pole in the wig, with a long
look at Grushenka, and relapsing into dignified silence he sucked his
pipe again.

“No, no. The Polish gentleman spoke the truth.” Kalganov got excited
again, as though it were a question of vast import. “He’s never been in
Poland, so how can he talk about it? I suppose you weren’t married in
Poland, were you?”

“No, in the Province of Smolensk. Only, a Uhlan had brought her to
Russia before that, my future wife, with her mamma and her aunt, and
another female relation with a grown-up son. He brought her straight
from Poland and gave her up to me. He was a lieutenant in our regiment,
a very nice young man. At first he meant to marry her himself. But he
didn’t marry her, because she turned out to be lame.”

“So you married a lame woman?” cried Kalganov.

“Yes. They both deceived me a little bit at the time, and concealed it.
I thought she was hopping; she kept hopping.... I thought it was for
fun.”

“So pleased she was going to marry you!” yelled Kalganov, in a ringing,
childish voice.

“Yes, so pleased. But it turned out to be quite a different cause.
Afterwards, when we were married, after the wedding, that very evening,
she confessed, and very touchingly asked forgiveness. ‘I once jumped
over a puddle when I was a child,’ she said, ‘and injured my leg.’ He
he!”

Kalganov went off into the most childish laughter, almost falling on
the sofa. Grushenka, too, laughed. Mitya was at the pinnacle of
happiness.

“Do you know, that’s the truth, he’s not lying now,” exclaimed
Kalganov, turning to Mitya; “and do you know, he’s been married twice;
it’s his first wife he’s talking about. But his second wife, do you
know, ran away, and is alive now.”

“Is it possible?” said Mitya, turning quickly to Maximov with an
expression of the utmost astonishment.

“Yes. She did run away. I’ve had that unpleasant experience,” Maximov
modestly assented, “with a _monsieur_. And what was worse, she’d had
all my little property transferred to her beforehand. ‘You’re an
educated man,’ she said to me. ‘You can always get your living.’ She
settled my business with that. A venerable bishop once said to me: ‘One
of your wives was lame, but the other was too light-footed.’ He he!”

“Listen, listen!” cried Kalganov, bubbling over, “if he’s telling
lies—and he often is—he’s only doing it to amuse us all. There’s no
harm in that, is there? You know, I sometimes like him. He’s awfully
low, but it’s natural to him, eh? Don’t you think so? Some people are
low from self-interest, but he’s simply so, from nature. Only fancy,
he claims (he was arguing about it all the way yesterday) that Gogol
wrote _Dead Souls_ about him. Do you remember, there’s a landowner
called Maximov in it, whom Nozdryov thrashed. He was charged, do you
remember, ‘for inflicting bodily injury with rods on the landowner
Maximov in a drunken condition.’ Would you believe it, he claims that
he was that Maximov and that he was beaten! Now can it be so?
Tchitchikov made his journey, at the very latest, at the beginning of
the twenties, so that the dates don’t fit. He couldn’t have been
thrashed then, he couldn’t, could he?”

It was difficult to imagine what Kalganov was excited about, but his
excitement was genuine. Mitya followed his lead without protest.

“Well, but if they did thrash him!” he cried, laughing.

“It’s not that they thrashed me exactly, but what I mean is—” put in
Maximov.

“What do you mean? Either they thrashed you or they didn’t.”

“What o’clock is it, _panie_?” the Pole, with the pipe, asked his tall
friend, with a bored expression. The other shrugged his shoulders in
reply. Neither of them had a watch.

“Why not talk? Let other people talk. Mustn’t other people talk because
you’re bored?” Grushenka flew at him with evident intention of finding
fault. Something seemed for the first time to flash upon Mitya’s mind.
This time the Pole answered with unmistakable irritability.

“_Pani_, I didn’t oppose it. I didn’t say anything.”

“All right then. Come, tell us your story,” Grushenka cried to Maximov.
“Why are you all silent?”

“There’s nothing to tell, it’s all so foolish,” answered Maximov at
once, with evident satisfaction, mincing a little. “Besides, all that’s
by way of allegory in Gogol, for he’s made all the names have a
meaning. Nozdryov was really called Nosov, and Kuvshinikov had quite a
different name, he was called Shkvornev. Fenardi really was called
Fenardi, only he wasn’t an Italian but a Russian, and Mamsel Fenardi
was a pretty girl with her pretty little legs in tights, and she had a
little short skirt with spangles, and she kept turning round and round,
only not for four hours but for four minutes only, and she bewitched
every one...”

“But what were you beaten for?” cried Kalganov.

“For Piron!” answered Maximov.

“What Piron?” cried Mitya.

“The famous French writer, Piron. We were all drinking then, a big
party of us, in a tavern at that very fair. They’d invited me, and
first of all I began quoting epigrams. ‘Is that you, Boileau? What a
funny get-up!’ and Boileau answers that he’s going to a masquerade,
that is to the baths, he he! And they took it to themselves, so I made
haste to repeat another, very sarcastic, well known to all educated
people:

Yes, Sappho and Phaon are we!
But one grief is weighing on me.
You don’t know your way to the sea!


They were still more offended and began abusing me in the most unseemly
way for it. And as ill-luck would have it, to set things right, I began
telling a very cultivated anecdote about Piron, how he was not accepted
into the French Academy, and to revenge himself wrote his own epitaph:

Ci-gît Piron qui ne fut rien,
Pas même académicien.


They seized me and thrashed me.”

“But what for? What for?”

“For my education. People can thrash a man for anything,” Maximov
concluded, briefly and sententiously.

“Eh, that’s enough! That’s all stupid, I don’t want to listen. I
thought it would be amusing,” Grushenka cut them short, suddenly.

Mitya started, and at once left off laughing. The tall Pole rose upon
his feet, and with the haughty air of a man, bored and out of his
element, began pacing from corner to corner of the room, his hands
behind his back.

“Ah, he can’t sit still,” said Grushenka, looking at him
contemptuously. Mitya began to feel anxious. He noticed besides, that
the Pole on the sofa was looking at him with an irritable expression.

“_Panie!_” cried Mitya, “let’s drink! and the other _pan_, too! Let us
drink.”

In a flash he had pulled three glasses towards him, and filled them
with champagne.

“To Poland, _panovie_, I drink to your Poland!” cried Mitya.

“I shall be delighted, _panie_,” said the Pole on the sofa, with
dignity and affable condescension, and he took his glass.

“And the other _pan_, what’s his name? Drink, most illustrious, take
your glass!” Mitya urged.

“Pan Vrublevsky,” put in the Pole on the sofa.

Pan Vrublevsky came up to the table, swaying as he walked.

“To Poland, _panovie!_” cried Mitya, raising his glass. “Hurrah!”

All three drank. Mitya seized the bottle and again poured out three
glasses.

“Now to Russia, _panovie_, and let us be brothers!”

“Pour out some for us,” said Grushenka; “I’ll drink to Russia, too!”

“So will I,” said Kalganov.

“And I would, too ... to Russia, the old grandmother!” tittered
Maximov.

“All! All!” cried Mitya. “Trifon Borissovitch, some more bottles!”

The other three bottles Mitya had brought with him were put on the
table. Mitya filled the glasses.

“To Russia! Hurrah!” he shouted again. All drank the toast except the
Poles, and Grushenka tossed off her whole glass at once. The Poles did
not touch theirs.

“How’s this, _panovie_?” cried Mitya, “won’t you drink it?”

Pan Vrublevsky took the glass, raised it and said with a resonant
voice:

“To Russia as she was before 1772.”

“Come, that’s better!” cried the other Pole, and they both emptied
their glasses at once.

“You’re fools, you _panovie_,” broke suddenly from Mitya.

“_Panie!_” shouted both the Poles, menacingly, setting on Mitya like a
couple of cocks. Pan Vrublevsky was specially furious.

“Can one help loving one’s own country?” he shouted.

“Be silent! Don’t quarrel! I won’t have any quarreling!” cried
Grushenka imperiously, and she stamped her foot on the floor. Her face
glowed, her eyes were shining. The effects of the glass she had just
drunk were apparent. Mitya was terribly alarmed.

“_Panovie_, forgive me! It was my fault, I’m sorry. Vrublevsky, _panie_
Vrublevsky, I’m sorry.”

“Hold your tongue, you, anyway! Sit down, you stupid!” Grushenka
scolded with angry annoyance.

Every one sat down, all were silent, looking at one another.

“Gentlemen, I was the cause of it all,” Mitya began again, unable to
make anything of Grushenka’s words. “Come, why are we sitting here?
What shall we do ... to amuse ourselves again?”

“Ach, it’s certainly anything but amusing!” Kalganov mumbled lazily.

“Let’s play faro again, as we did just now,” Maximov tittered suddenly.

“Faro? Splendid!” cried Mitya. “If only the _panovie_—”

“It’s lite, _panovie_,” the Pole on the sofa responded, as it were
unwillingly.

“That’s true,” assented Pan Vrublevsky.

“Lite? What do you mean by ‘lite’?” asked Grushenka.

“Late, _pani_! ‘a late hour’ I mean,” the Pole on the sofa explained.

“It’s always late with them. They can never do anything!” Grushenka
almost shrieked in her anger. “They’re dull themselves, so they want
others to be dull. Before you came, Mitya, they were just as silent and
kept turning up their noses at me.”

“My goddess!” cried the Pole on the sofa, “I see you’re not
well-disposed to me, that’s why I’m gloomy. I’m ready, _panie_,” added
he, addressing Mitya.

“Begin, _panie_,” Mitya assented, pulling his notes out of his pocket,
and laying two hundred-rouble notes on the table. “I want to lose a lot
to you. Take your cards. Make the bank.”

“We’ll have cards from the landlord, _panie_,” said the little Pole,
gravely and emphatically.

“That’s much the best way,” chimed in Pan Vrublevsky.

“From the landlord? Very good, I understand, let’s get them from him.
Cards!” Mitya shouted to the landlord.

The landlord brought in a new, unopened pack, and informed Mitya that
the girls were getting ready, and that the Jews with the cymbals would
most likely be here soon; but the cart with the provisions had not yet
arrived. Mitya jumped up from the table and ran into the next room to
give orders, but only three girls had arrived, and Marya was not there
yet. And he did not know himself what orders to give and why he had run
out. He only told them to take out of the box the presents for the
girls, the sweets, the toffee and the fondants. “And vodka for Andrey,
vodka for Andrey!” he cried in haste. “I was rude to Andrey!”

Suddenly Maximov, who had followed him out, touched him on the
shoulder.

“Give me five roubles,” he whispered to Mitya. “I’ll stake something at
faro, too, he he!”

“Capital! Splendid! Take ten, here!”

Again he took all the notes out of his pocket and picked out one for
ten roubles. “And if you lose that, come again, come again.”

“Very good,” Maximov whispered joyfully, and he ran back again. Mitya,
too, returned, apologizing for having kept them waiting. The Poles had
already sat down, and opened the pack. They looked much more amiable,
almost cordial. The Pole on the sofa had lighted another pipe and was
preparing to throw. He wore an air of solemnity.

“To your places, gentlemen,” cried Pan Vrublevsky.

“No, I’m not going to play any more,” observed Kalganov, “I’ve lost
fifty roubles to them just now.”

“The _pan_ had no luck, perhaps he’ll be lucky this time,” the Pole on
the sofa observed in his direction.

“How much in the bank? To correspond?” asked Mitya.

“That’s according, _panie_, maybe a hundred, maybe two hundred, as much
as you will stake.”

“A million!” laughed Mitya.

“The Pan Captain has heard of Pan Podvysotsky, perhaps?”

“What Podvysotsky?”

“In Warsaw there was a bank and any one comes and stakes against it.
Podvysotsky comes, sees a thousand gold pieces, stakes against the
bank. The banker says, ‘_Panie_ Podvysotsky, are you laying down the
gold, or must we trust to your honor?’ ‘To my honor, _panie_,’ says
Podvysotsky. ‘So much the better.’ The banker throws the dice.
Podvysotsky wins. ‘Take it, _panie_,’ says the banker, and pulling out
the drawer he gives him a million. ‘Take it, _panie_, this is your
gain.’ There was a million in the bank. ‘I didn’t know that,’ says
Podvysotsky. ‘_Panie_ Podvysotsky,’ said the banker, ‘you pledged your
honor and we pledged ours.’ Podvysotsky took the million.”

“That’s not true,” said Kalganov.

“_Panie_ Kalganov, in gentlemanly society one doesn’t say such things.”

“As if a Polish gambler would give away a million!” cried Mitya, but
checked himself at once. “Forgive me, _panie_, it’s my fault again, he
would, he would give away a million, for honor, for Polish honor. You
see how I talk Polish, ha ha! Here, I stake ten roubles, the knave
leads.”

“And I put a rouble on the queen, the queen of hearts, the pretty
little _panienotchka_, he he!” laughed Maximov, pulling out his queen,
and, as though trying to conceal it from every one, he moved right up
and crossed himself hurriedly under the table. Mitya won. The rouble
won, too.

“A corner!” cried Mitya.

“I’ll bet another rouble, a ‘single’ stake,” Maximov muttered
gleefully, hugely delighted at having won a rouble.

“Lost!” shouted Mitya. “A ‘double’ on the seven!”

The seven too was trumped.

“Stop!” cried Kalganov suddenly.

“Double! Double!” Mitya doubled his stakes, and each time he doubled
the stake, the card he doubled was trumped by the Poles. The rouble
stakes kept winning.

“On the double!” shouted Mitya furiously.

“You’ve lost two hundred, _panie_. Will you stake another hundred?” the
Pole on the sofa inquired.

“What? Lost two hundred already? Then another two hundred! All
doubles!”

And pulling his money out of his pocket, Mitya was about to fling two
hundred roubles on the queen, but Kalganov covered it with his hand.

“That’s enough!” he shouted in his ringing voice.

“What’s the matter?” Mitya stared at him.

“That’s enough! I don’t want you to play any more. Don’t!”

“Why?”

“Because I don’t. Hang it, come away. That’s why. I won’t let you go on
playing.”

Mitya gazed at him in astonishment.

“Give it up, Mitya. He may be right. You’ve lost a lot as it is,” said
Grushenka, with a curious note in her voice. Both the Poles rose from
their seats with a deeply offended air.

“Are you joking, _panie_?” said the short man, looking severely at
Kalganov.

“How dare you!” Pan Vrublevsky, too, growled at Kalganov.

“Don’t dare to shout like that,” cried Grushenka. “Ah, you
turkey-cocks!”

Mitya looked at each of them in turn. But something in Grushenka’s face
suddenly struck him, and at the same instant something new flashed into
his mind—a strange new thought!

“_Pani_ Agrippina,” the little Pole was beginning, crimson with anger,
when Mitya suddenly went up to him and slapped him on the shoulder.

“Most illustrious, two words with you.”

“What do you want?”

“In the next room, I’ve two words to say to you, something pleasant,
very pleasant. You’ll be glad to hear it.”

The little _pan_ was taken aback and looked apprehensively at Mitya. He
agreed at once, however, on condition that Pan Vrublevsky went with
them.

“The bodyguard? Let him come, and I want him, too. I must have him!”
cried Mitya. “March, _panovie_!”

“Where are you going?” asked Grushenka, anxiously.

“We’ll be back in one moment,” answered Mitya.

There was a sort of boldness, a sudden confidence shining in his eyes.
His face had looked very different when he entered the room an hour
before.

He led the Poles, not into the large room where the chorus of girls was
assembling and the table was being laid, but into the bedroom on the
right, where the trunks and packages were kept, and there were two
large beds, with pyramids of cotton pillows on each. There was a
lighted candle on a small deal table in the corner. The small man and
Mitya sat down to this table, facing each other, while the huge
Vrublevsky stood beside them, his hands behind his back. The Poles
looked severe but were evidently inquisitive.

“What can I do for you, _panie_?” lisped the little Pole.

“Well, look here, _panie_, I won’t keep you long. There’s money for
you,” he pulled out his notes. “Would you like three thousand? Take it
and go your way.”

The Pole gazed open-eyed at Mitya, with a searching look.

“Three thousand, _panie_?” He exchanged glances with Vrublevsky.

“Three, _panovie_, three! Listen, _panie_, I see you’re a sensible man.
Take three thousand and go to the devil, and Vrublevsky with you—d’you
hear? But, at once, this very minute, and for ever. You understand
that, _panie_, for ever. Here’s the door, you go out of it. What have
you got there, a great-coat, a fur coat? I’ll bring it out to you.
They’ll get the horses out directly, and then—good-by, _panie_!”

Mitya awaited an answer with assurance. He had no doubts. An expression
of extraordinary resolution passed over the Pole’s face.

“And the money, _panie_?”

“The money, _panie_? Five hundred roubles I’ll give you this moment for
the journey, and as a first installment, and two thousand five hundred
to-morrow, in the town—I swear on my honor, I’ll get it, I’ll get it
at any cost!” cried Mitya.

The Poles exchanged glances again. The short man’s face looked more
forbidding.

“Seven hundred, seven hundred, not five hundred, at once, this minute,
cash down!” Mitya added, feeling something wrong. “What’s the matter,
_panie_? Don’t you trust me? I can’t give you the whole three thousand
straight off. If I give it, you may come back to her to-morrow....
Besides, I haven’t the three thousand with me. I’ve got it at home in
the town,” faltered Mitya, his spirit sinking at every word he uttered.
“Upon my word, the money’s there, hidden.”

In an instant an extraordinary sense of personal dignity showed itself
in the little man’s face.

“What next?” he asked ironically. “For shame!” and he spat on the
floor. Pan Vrublevsky spat too.

“You do that, _panie_,” said Mitya, recognizing with despair that all
was over, “because you hope to make more out of Grushenka? You’re a
couple of capons, that’s what you are!”

“This is a mortal insult!” The little Pole turned as red as a crab, and
he went out of the room, briskly, as though unwilling to hear another
word. Vrublevsky swung out after him, and Mitya followed, confused and
crestfallen. He was afraid of Grushenka, afraid that the _pan_ would at
once raise an outcry. And so indeed he did. The Pole walked into the
room and threw himself in a theatrical attitude before Grushenka.

“_Pani_ Agrippina, I have received a mortal insult!” he exclaimed. But
Grushenka suddenly lost all patience, as though they had wounded her in
the tenderest spot.

“Speak Russian! Speak Russian!” she cried, “not another word of Polish!
You used to talk Russian. You can’t have forgotten it in five years.”

She was red with passion.

“_Pani_ Agrippina—”

“My name’s Agrafena, Grushenka, speak Russian or I won’t listen!”

The Pole gasped with offended dignity, and quickly and pompously
delivered himself in broken Russian:

“_Pani_ Agrafena, I came here to forget the past and forgive it, to
forget all that has happened till to-day—”

“Forgive? Came here to forgive me?” Grushenka cut him short, jumping up
from her seat.

“Just so, _pani_, I’m not pusillanimous, I’m magnanimous. But I was
astounded when I saw your lovers. Pan Mitya offered me three thousand,
in the other room to depart. I spat in the _pan’s_ face.”

“What? He offered you money for me?” cried Grushenka, hysterically. “Is
it true, Mitya? How dare you? Am I for sale?”

“_Panie, panie!_” yelled Mitya, “she’s pure and shining, and I have
never been her lover! That’s a lie....”

“How dare you defend me to him?” shrieked Grushenka. “It wasn’t virtue
kept me pure, and it wasn’t that I was afraid of Kuzma, but that I
might hold up my head when I met him, and tell him he’s a scoundrel.
And he did actually refuse the money?”

“He took it! He took it!” cried Mitya; “only he wanted to get the whole
three thousand at once, and I could only give him seven hundred
straight off.”

“I see: he heard I had money, and came here to marry me!”

“_Pani_ Agrippina!” cried the little Pole. “I’m—a knight, I’m—a
nobleman, and not a _lajdak_. I came here to make you my wife and I
find you a different woman, perverse and shameless.”

“Oh, go back where you came from! I’ll tell them to turn you out and
you’ll be turned out,” cried Grushenka, furious. “I’ve been a fool, a
fool, to have been miserable these five years! And it wasn’t for his
sake, it was my anger made me miserable. And this isn’t he at all! Was
he like this? It might be his father! Where did you get your wig from?
He was a falcon, but this is a gander. He used to laugh and sing to
me.... And I’ve been crying for five years, damned fool, abject,
shameless I was!”

She sank back in her low chair and hid her face in her hands. At that
instant the chorus of Mokroe began singing in the room on the left—a
rollicking dance song.

“A regular Sodom!” Vrublevsky roared suddenly. “Landlord, send the
shameless hussies away!”

The landlord, who had been for some time past inquisitively peeping in
at the door, hearing shouts and guessing that his guests were
quarreling, at once entered the room.

“What are you shouting for? D’you want to split your throat?” he said,
addressing Vrublevsky, with surprising rudeness.

“Animal!” bellowed Pan Vrublevsky.

“Animal? And what sort of cards were you playing with just now? I gave
you a pack and you hid it. You played with marked cards! I could send
you to Siberia for playing with false cards, d’you know that, for it’s
just the same as false banknotes....”

And going up to the sofa he thrust his fingers between the sofa back
and the cushion, and pulled out an unopened pack of cards.

“Here’s my pack unopened!”

He held it up and showed it to all in the room. “From where I stood I
saw him slip my pack away, and put his in place of it—you’re a cheat
and not a gentleman!”

“And I twice saw the _pan_ change a card!” cried Kalganov.

“How shameful! How shameful!” exclaimed Grushenka, clasping her hands,
and blushing for genuine shame. “Good Lord, he’s come to that!”

“I thought so, too!” said Mitya. But before he had uttered the words,
Vrublevsky, with a confused and infuriated face, shook his fist at
Grushenka, shouting:

“You low harlot!”

Mitya flew at him at once, clutched him in both hands, lifted him in
the air, and in one instant had carried him into the room on the right,
from which they had just come.

“I’ve laid him on the floor, there,” he announced, returning at once,
gasping with excitement. “He’s struggling, the scoundrel! But he won’t
come back, no fear of that!...”

He closed one half of the folding doors, and holding the other ajar
called out to the little Pole:

“Most illustrious, will you be pleased to retire as well?”

“My dear Dmitri Fyodorovitch,” said Trifon Borissovitch, “make them
give you back the money you lost. It’s as good as stolen from you.”

“I don’t want my fifty roubles back,” Kalganov declared suddenly.

“I don’t want my two hundred, either,” cried Mitya, “I wouldn’t take it
for anything! Let him keep it as a consolation.”

“Bravo, Mitya! You’re a trump, Mitya!” cried Grushenka, and there was a
note of fierce anger in the exclamation.

The little _pan_, crimson with fury but still mindful of his dignity,
was making for the door, but he stopped short and said suddenly,
addressing Grushenka:

“_Pani_, if you want to come with me, come. If not, good-by.”

And swelling with indignation and importance he went to the door. This
was a man of character: he had so good an opinion of himself that after
all that had passed, he still expected that she would marry him. Mitya
slammed the door after him.

“Lock it,” said Kalganov. But the key clicked on the other side, they
had locked it from within.

“That’s capital!” exclaimed Grushenka relentlessly. “Serve them right!”




Chapter VIII.
Delirium


What followed was almost an orgy, a feast to which all were welcome.
Grushenka was the first to call for wine.

“I want to drink. I want to be quite drunk, as we were before. Do you
remember, Mitya, do you remember how we made friends here last time!”

Mitya himself was almost delirious, feeling that his happiness was at
hand. But Grushenka was continually sending him away from her.

“Go and enjoy yourself. Tell them to dance, to make merry, ‘let the
stove and cottage dance’; as we had it last time,” she kept exclaiming.
She was tremendously excited. And Mitya hastened to obey her. The
chorus were in the next room. The room in which they had been sitting
till that moment was too small, and was divided in two by cotton
curtains, behind which was a huge bed with a puffy feather mattress and
a pyramid of cotton pillows. In the four rooms for visitors there were
beds. Grushenka settled herself just at the door. Mitya set an easy
chair for her. She had sat in the same place to watch the dancing and
singing “the time before,” when they had made merry there. All the
girls who had come had been there then; the Jewish band with fiddles
and zithers had come, too, and at last the long expected cart had
arrived with the wines and provisions.

Mitya bustled about. All sorts of people began coming into the room to
look on, peasants and their women, who had been roused from sleep and
attracted by the hopes of another marvelous entertainment such as they
had enjoyed a month before. Mitya remembered their faces, greeting and
embracing every one he knew. He uncorked bottles and poured out wine
for every one who presented himself. Only the girls were very eager for
the champagne. The men preferred rum, brandy, and, above all, hot
punch. Mitya had chocolate made for all the girls, and ordered that
three samovars should be kept boiling all night to provide tea and
punch for everyone to help himself.

An absurd chaotic confusion followed, but Mitya was in his natural
element, and the more foolish it became, the more his spirits rose. If
the peasants had asked him for money at that moment, he would have
pulled out his notes and given them away right and left. This was
probably why the landlord, Trifon Borissovitch, kept hovering about
Mitya to protect him. He seemed to have given up all idea of going to
bed that night; but he drank little, only one glass of punch, and kept
a sharp look-out on Mitya’s interests after his own fashion. He
intervened in the nick of time, civilly and obsequiously persuading
Mitya not to give away “cigars and Rhine wine,” and, above all, money
to the peasants as he had done before. He was very indignant, too, at
the peasant girls drinking liqueur, and eating sweets.

“They’re a lousy lot, Dmitri Fyodorovitch,” he said. “I’d give them a
kick, every one of them, and they’d take it as an honor—that’s all
they’re worth!”

Mitya remembered Andrey again, and ordered punch to be sent out to him.
“I was rude to him just now,” he repeated with a sinking, softened
voice. Kalganov did not want to drink, and at first did not care for
the girls’ singing; but after he had drunk a couple of glasses of
champagne he became extraordinarily lively, strolling about the room,
laughing and praising the music and the songs, admiring every one and
everything. Maximov, blissfully drunk, never left his side. Grushenka,
too, was beginning to get drunk. Pointing to Kalganov, she said to
Mitya:

“What a dear, charming boy he is!”

And Mitya, delighted, ran to kiss Kalganov and Maximov. Oh, great were
his hopes! She had said nothing yet, and seemed, indeed, purposely to
refrain from speaking. But she looked at him from time to time with
caressing and passionate eyes. At last she suddenly gripped his hand
and drew him vigorously to her. She was sitting at the moment in the
low chair by the door.

“How was it you came just now, eh? Have you walked in!... I was
frightened. So you wanted to give me up to him, did you? Did you really
want to?”

“I didn’t want to spoil your happiness!” Mitya faltered blissfully. But
she did not need his answer.

“Well, go and enjoy yourself ...” she sent him away once more. “Don’t
cry, I’ll call you back again.”

He would run away, and she listened to the singing and looked at the
dancing, though her eyes followed him wherever he went. But in another
quarter of an hour she would call him once more and again he would run
back to her.

“Come, sit beside me, tell me, how did you hear about me, and my coming
here yesterday? From whom did you first hear it?”

And Mitya began telling her all about it, disconnectedly, incoherently,
feverishly. He spoke strangely, often frowning, and stopping abruptly.

“What are you frowning at?” she asked.

“Nothing.... I left a man ill there. I’d give ten years of my life for
him to get well, to know he was all right!”

“Well, never mind him, if he’s ill. So you meant to shoot yourself 
to-morrow! What a silly boy! What for? I like such reckless fellows as
you,” she lisped, with a rather halting tongue. “So you would go any
length for me, eh? Did you really mean to shoot yourself to-morrow, you
stupid? No, wait a little. To-morrow I may have something to say to
you.... I won’t say it to-day, but to-morrow. You’d like it to be
to-day? No, I don’t want to to-day. Come, go along now, go and amuse
yourself.”

Once, however, she called him, as it were, puzzled and uneasy.

“Why are you sad? I see you’re sad.... Yes, I see it,” she added,
looking intently into his eyes. “Though you keep kissing the peasants
and shouting, I see something. No, be merry. I’m merry; you be merry,
too.... I love somebody here. Guess who it is. Ah, look, my boy has
fallen asleep, poor dear, he’s drunk.”

She meant Kalganov. He was, in fact, drunk, and had dropped asleep for
a moment, sitting on the sofa. But he was not merely drowsy from drink;
he felt suddenly dejected, or, as he said, “bored.” He was intensely
depressed by the girls’ songs, which, as the drinking went on,
gradually became coarse and more reckless. And the dances were as bad.
Two girls dressed up as bears, and a lively girl, called Stepanida,
with a stick in her hand, acted the part of keeper, and began to “show
them.”

“Look alive, Marya, or you’ll get the stick!”

The bears rolled on the ground at last in the most unseemly fashion,
amid roars of laughter from the closely-packed crowd of men and women.

“Well, let them! Let them!” said Grushenka sententiously, with an
ecstatic expression on her face. “When they do get a day to enjoy
themselves, why shouldn’t folks be happy?”

Kalganov looked as though he had been besmirched with dirt.

“It’s swinish, all this peasant foolery,” he murmured, moving away;
“it’s the game they play when it’s light all night in summer.”

He particularly disliked one “new” song to a jaunty dance-tune. It
described how a gentleman came and tried his luck with the girls, to
see whether they would love him:

The master came to try the girls:
Would they love him, would they not?


But the girls could not love the master:

He would beat me cruelly
And such love won’t do for me.


Then a gypsy comes along and he, too, tries:

The gypsy came to try the girls:
Would they love him, would they not?


But they couldn’t love the gypsy either:

He would be a thief, I fear,
And would cause me many a tear.


And many more men come to try their luck, among them a soldier:

The soldier came to try the girls:
Would they love him, would they not?


But the soldier is rejected with contempt, in two indecent lines, sung
with absolute frankness and producing a furore in the audience. The
song ends with a merchant:

The merchant came to try the girls:
Would they love him, would they not?


And it appears that he wins their love because:

The merchant will make gold for me
And his queen I’ll gladly be.


Kalganov was positively indignant.

“That’s just a song of yesterday,” he said aloud. “Who writes such
things for them? They might just as well have had a railwayman or a Jew
come to try his luck with the girls; they’d have carried all before
them.”

And, almost as though it were a personal affront, he declared, on the
spot, that he was bored, sat down on the sofa and immediately fell
asleep. His pretty little face looked rather pale, as it fell back on
the sofa cushion.

“Look how pretty he is,” said Grushenka, taking Mitya up to him. “I was
combing his hair just now; his hair’s like flax, and so thick....”

And, bending over him tenderly, she kissed his forehead. Kalganov
instantly opened his eyes, looked at her, stood up, and with the most
anxious air inquired where was Maximov?

“So that’s who it is you want.” Grushenka laughed. “Stay with me a
minute. Mitya, run and find his Maximov.”

Maximov, it appeared, could not tear himself away from the girls, only
running away from time to time to pour himself out a glass of liqueur.
He had drunk two cups of chocolate. His face was red, and his nose was
crimson; his eyes were moist and mawkishly sweet. He ran up and
announced that he was going to dance the “sabotière.”

“They taught me all those well-bred, aristocratic dances when I was
little....”

“Go, go with him, Mitya, and I’ll watch from here how he dances,” said
Grushenka.

“No, no, I’m coming to look on, too,” exclaimed Kalganov, brushing
aside in the most naïve way Grushenka’s offer to sit with him. They all
went to look on. Maximov danced his dance. But it roused no great
admiration in any one but Mitya. It consisted of nothing but skipping
and hopping, kicking up the feet, and at every skip Maximov slapped the
upturned sole of his foot. Kalganov did not like it at all, but Mitya
kissed the dancer.

“Thanks. You’re tired perhaps? What are you looking for here? Would you
like some sweets? A cigar, perhaps?”

“A cigarette.”

“Don’t you want a drink?”

“I’ll just have a liqueur.... Have you any chocolates?”

“Yes, there’s a heap of them on the table there. Choose one, my dear
soul!”

“I like one with vanilla ... for old people. He he!”

“No, brother, we’ve none of that special sort.”

“I say,” the old man bent down to whisper in Mitya’s ear. “That girl
there, little Marya, he he! How would it be if you were to help me make
friends with her?”

“So that’s what you’re after! No, brother, that won’t do!”

“I’d do no harm to any one,” Maximov muttered disconsolately.

“Oh, all right, all right. They only come here to dance and sing, you
know, brother. But damn it all, wait a bit!... Eat and drink and be
merry, meanwhile. Don’t you want money?”

“Later on, perhaps,” smiled Maximov.

“All right, all right....”

Mitya’s head was burning. He went outside to the wooden balcony which
ran round the whole building on the inner side, overlooking the
courtyard. The fresh air revived him. He stood alone in a dark corner,
and suddenly clutched his head in both hands. His scattered thoughts
came together; his sensations blended into a whole and threw a sudden
light into his mind. A fearful and terrible light! “If I’m to shoot
myself, why not now?” passed through his mind. “Why not go for the
pistols, bring them here, and here, in this dark dirty corner, make an
end?” Almost a minute he stood, undecided. A few hours earlier, when he
had been dashing here, he was pursued by disgrace, by the theft he had
committed, and that blood, that blood!... But yet it was easier for him
then. Then everything was over: he had lost her, given her up. She was
gone, for him—oh, then his death sentence had been easier for him; at
least it had seemed necessary, inevitable, for what had he to stay on
earth for?

But now? Was it the same as then? Now one phantom, one terror at least
was at an end: that first, rightful lover, that fateful figure had
vanished, leaving no trace. The terrible phantom had turned into
something so small, so comic; it had been carried into the bedroom and
locked in. It would never return. She was ashamed, and from her eyes he
could see now whom she loved. Now he had everything to make life happy
... but he could not go on living, he could not; oh, damnation! “O God!
restore to life the man I knocked down at the fence! Let this fearful
cup pass from me! Lord, thou hast wrought miracles for such sinners as
me! But what, what if the old man’s alive? Oh, then the shame of the
other disgrace I would wipe away. I would restore the stolen money. I’d
give it back; I’d get it somehow.... No trace of that shame will remain
except in my heart for ever! But no, no; oh, impossible cowardly
dreams! Oh, damnation!”

Yet there was a ray of light and hope in his darkness. He jumped up and
ran back to the room—to her, to her, his queen for ever! Was not one
moment of her love worth all the rest of life, even in the agonies of
disgrace? This wild question clutched at his heart. “To her, to her
alone, to see her, to hear her, to think of nothing, to forget
everything, if only for that night, for an hour, for a moment!” Just as
he turned from the balcony into the passage, he came upon the landlord,
Trifon Borissovitch. He thought he looked gloomy and worried, and
fancied he had come to find him.

“What is it, Trifon Borissovitch? are you looking for me?”

“No, sir.” The landlord seemed disconcerted. “Why should I be looking
for you? Where have you been?”

“Why do you look so glum? You’re not angry, are you? Wait a bit, you
shall soon get to bed.... What’s the time?”

“It’ll be three o’clock. Past three, it must be.”

“We’ll leave off soon. We’ll leave off.”

“Don’t mention it; it doesn’t matter. Keep it up as long as you
like....”

“What’s the matter with him?” Mitya wondered for an instant, and he ran
back to the room where the girls were dancing. But she was not there.
She was not in the blue room either; there was no one but Kalganov
asleep on the sofa. Mitya peeped behind the curtain—she was there. She
was sitting in the corner, on a trunk. Bent forward, with her head and
arms on the bed close by, she was crying bitterly, doing her utmost to
stifle her sobs that she might not be heard. Seeing Mitya, she beckoned
him to her, and when he ran to her, she grasped his hand tightly.

“Mitya, Mitya, I loved him, you know. How I have loved him these five
years, all that time! Did I love him or only my own anger? No, him,
him! It’s a lie that it was my anger I loved and not him. Mitya, I was
only seventeen then; he was so kind to me, so merry; he used to sing to
me.... Or so it seemed to a silly girl like me.... And now, O Lord,
it’s not the same man. Even his face is not the same; he’s different
altogether. I shouldn’t have known him. I drove here with Timofey, and
all the way I was thinking how I should meet him, what I should say to
him, how we should look at one another. My soul was faint, and all of a
sudden it was just as though he had emptied a pail of dirty water over
me. He talked to me like a schoolmaster, all so grave and learned; he
met me so solemnly that I was struck dumb. I couldn’t get a word in. At
first I thought he was ashamed to talk before his great big Pole. I sat
staring at him and wondering why I couldn’t say a word to him now. It
must have been his wife that ruined him; you know he threw me up to get
married. She must have changed him like that. Mitya, how shameful it
is! Oh, Mitya, I’m ashamed, I’m ashamed for all my life. Curse it,
curse it, curse those five years!”

And again she burst into tears, but clung tight to Mitya’s hand and did
not let it go.

“Mitya, darling, stay, don’t go away. I want to say one word to you,”
she whispered, and suddenly raised her face to him. “Listen, tell me
who it is I love? I love one man here. Who is that man? That’s what you
must tell me.”

A smile lighted up her face that was swollen with weeping, and her eyes
shone in the half darkness.

“A falcon flew in, and my heart sank. ‘Fool! that’s the man you love!’
That was what my heart whispered to me at once. You came in and all
grew bright. What’s he afraid of? I wondered. For you were frightened;
you couldn’t speak. It’s not them he’s afraid of—could you be
frightened of any one? It’s me he’s afraid of, I thought, only me. So
Fenya told you, you little stupid, how I called to Alyosha out of the
window that I’d loved Mityenka for one hour, and that I was going now
to love ... another. Mitya, Mitya, how could I be such a fool as to
think I could love any one after you? Do you forgive me, Mitya? Do you
forgive me or not? Do you love me? Do you love me?” She jumped up and
held him with both hands on his shoulders. Mitya, dumb with rapture,
gazed into her eyes, at her face, at her smile, and suddenly clasped
her tightly in his arms and kissed her passionately.

“You will forgive me for having tormented you? It was through spite I
tormented you all. It was for spite I drove the old man out of his
mind.... Do you remember how you drank at my house one day and broke
the wine-glass? I remembered that and I broke a glass to-day and drank
‘to my vile heart.’ Mitya, my falcon, why don’t you kiss me? He kissed
me once, and now he draws back and looks and listens. Why listen to me?
Kiss me, kiss me hard, that’s right. If you love, well, then, love!
I’ll be your slave now, your slave for the rest of my life. It’s sweet
to be a slave. Kiss me! Beat me, ill-treat me, do what you will with
me.... And I do deserve to suffer. Stay, wait, afterwards, I won’t have
that....” she suddenly thrust him away. “Go along, Mitya, I’ll come and
have some wine, I want to be drunk, I’m going to get drunk and dance; I
must, I must!” She tore herself away from him and disappeared behind
the curtain. Mitya followed like a drunken man.

“Yes, come what may—whatever may happen now, for one minute I’d give
the whole world,” he thought. Grushenka did, in fact, toss off a whole
glass of champagne at one gulp, and became at once very tipsy. She sat
down in the same chair as before, with a blissful smile on her face.
Her cheeks were glowing, her lips were burning, her flashing eyes were
moist; there was passionate appeal in her eyes. Even Kalganov felt a
stir at the heart and went up to her.

“Did you feel how I kissed you when you were asleep just now?” she said
thickly. “I’m drunk now, that’s what it is.... And aren’t you drunk?
And why isn’t Mitya drinking? Why don’t you drink, Mitya? I’m drunk,
and you don’t drink....”

“I am drunk! I’m drunk as it is ... drunk with you ... and now I’ll be
drunk with wine, too.”

He drank off another glass, and—he thought it strange himself—that
glass made him completely drunk. He was suddenly drunk, although till
that moment he had been quite sober, he remembered that. From that
moment everything whirled about him, as though he were delirious. He
walked, laughed, talked to everybody, without knowing what he was
doing. Only one persistent burning sensation made itself felt
continually, “like a red-hot coal in his heart,” he said afterwards. He
went up to her, sat beside her, gazed at her, listened to her.... She
became very talkative, kept calling every one to her, and beckoned to
different girls out of the chorus. When the girl came up, she either
kissed her, or made the sign of the cross over her. In another minute
she might have cried. She was greatly amused by the “little old man,”
as she called Maximov. He ran up every minute to kiss her hands, “each
little finger,” and finally he danced another dance to an old song,
which he sang himself. He danced with special vigor to the refrain:

The little pig says—umph! umph! umph!
The little calf says—moo, moo, moo,
The little duck says—quack, quack, quack,
The little goose says—ga, ga, ga.
The hen goes strutting through the porch;
Troo-roo-roo-roo-roo, she’ll say,
Troo-roo-roo-roo-roo, she’ll say!


“Give him something, Mitya,” said Grushenka. “Give him a present, he’s
poor, you know. Ah, the poor, the insulted!... Do you know, Mitya, I
shall go into a nunnery. No, I really shall one day, Alyosha said
something to me to-day that I shall remember all my life.... Yes....
But to-day let us dance. To-morrow to the nunnery, but to-day we’ll
dance. I want to play to-day, good people, and what of it? God will
forgive us. If I were God, I’d forgive every one: ‘My dear sinners,
from this day forth I forgive you.’ I’m going to beg forgiveness:
‘Forgive me, good people, a silly wench.’ I’m a beast, that’s what I
am. But I want to pray. I gave a little onion. Wicked as I’ve been, I
want to pray. Mitya, let them dance, don’t stop them. Every one in the
world is good. Every one—even the worst of them. The world’s a nice
place. Though we’re bad the world’s all right. We’re good and bad, good
and bad.... Come, tell me, I’ve something to ask you: come here every
one, and I’ll ask you: Why am I so good? You know I am good. I’m very
good.... Come, why am I so good?”

So Grushenka babbled on, getting more and more drunk. At last she
announced that she was going to dance, too. She got up from her chair,
staggering. “Mitya, don’t give me any more wine—if I ask you, don’t
give it to me. Wine doesn’t give peace. Everything’s going round, the
stove, and everything. I want to dance. Let every one see how I dance
... let them see how beautifully I dance....”

She really meant it. She pulled a white cambric handkerchief out of her
pocket, and took it by one corner in her right hand, to wave it in the
dance. Mitya ran to and fro, the girls were quiet, and got ready to
break into a dancing song at the first signal. Maximov, hearing that
Grushenka wanted to dance, squealed with delight, and ran skipping
about in front of her, humming:

With legs so slim and sides so trim
And its little tail curled tight.


But Grushenka waved her handkerchief at him and drove him away.

“Sh-h! Mitya, why don’t they come? Let every one come ... to look on.
Call them in, too, that were locked in.... Why did you lock them in?
Tell them I’m going to dance. Let them look on, too....”

Mitya walked with a drunken swagger to the locked door, and began
knocking to the Poles with his fist.

“Hi, you ... Podvysotskys! Come, she’s going to dance. She calls you.”

“_Lajdak!_” one of the Poles shouted in reply.

“You’re a _lajdak_ yourself! You’re a little scoundrel, that’s what you
are.”

“Leave off laughing at Poland,” said Kalganov sententiously. He too was
drunk.

“Be quiet, boy! If I call him a scoundrel, it doesn’t mean that I
called all Poland so. One _lajdak_ doesn’t make a Poland. Be quiet, my
pretty boy, eat a sweetmeat.”

“Ach, what fellows! As though they were not men. Why won’t they make
friends?” said Grushenka, and went forward to dance. The chorus broke
into “Ah, my porch, my new porch!” Grushenka flung back her head, half
opened her lips, smiled, waved her handkerchief, and suddenly, with a
violent lurch, stood still in the middle of the room, looking
bewildered.

“I’m weak....” she said in an exhausted voice. “Forgive me.... I’m
weak, I can’t.... I’m sorry.”

She bowed to the chorus, and then began bowing in all directions.

“I’m sorry.... Forgive me....”

“The lady’s been drinking. The pretty lady has been drinking,” voices
were heard saying.

“The lady’s drunk too much,” Maximov explained to the girls, giggling.

“Mitya, lead me away ... take me,” said Grushenka helplessly. Mitya
pounced on her, snatched her up in his arms, and carried the precious
burden through the curtains.

“Well, now I’ll go,” thought Kalganov, and walking out of the blue
room, he closed the two halves of the door after him. But the orgy in
the larger room went on and grew louder and louder. Mitya laid
Grushenka on the bed and kissed her on the lips.

“Don’t touch me....” she faltered, in an imploring voice. “Don’t touch
me, till I’m yours.... I’ve told you I’m yours, but don’t touch me ...
spare me.... With them here, with them close, you mustn’t. He’s here.
It’s nasty here....”

“I’ll obey you! I won’t think of it ... I worship you!” muttered Mitya.
“Yes, it’s nasty here, it’s abominable.”

And still holding her in his arms, he sank on his knees by the bedside.

“I know, though you’re a brute, you’re generous,” Grushenka articulated
with difficulty. “It must be honorable ... it shall be honorable for
the future ... and let us be honest, let us be good, not brutes, but
good ... take me away, take me far away, do you hear? I don’t want it
to be here, but far, far away....”

“Oh, yes, yes, it must be!” said Mitya, pressing her in his arms. “I’ll
take you and we’ll fly away.... Oh, I’d give my whole life for one year
only to know about that blood!”

“What blood?” asked Grushenka, bewildered.

“Nothing,” muttered Mitya, through his teeth. “Grusha, you wanted to be
honest, but I’m a thief. But I’ve stolen money from Katya.... Disgrace,
a disgrace!”

“From Katya, from that young lady? No, you didn’t steal it. Give it her
back, take it from me.... Why make a fuss? Now everything of mine is
yours. What does money matter? We shall waste it anyway.... Folks like
us are bound to waste money. But we’d better go and work the land. I
want to dig the earth with my own hands. We must work, do you hear?
Alyosha said so. I won’t be your mistress, I’ll be faithful to you,
I’ll be your slave, I’ll work for you. We’ll go to the young lady and
bow down to her together, so that she may forgive us, and then we’ll go
away. And if she won’t forgive us, we’ll go, anyway. Take her her money
and love me.... Don’t love her.... Don’t love her any more. If you love
her, I shall strangle her.... I’ll put out both her eyes with a
needle....”

“I love you. I love only you. I’ll love you in Siberia....”

“Why Siberia? Never mind, Siberia, if you like. I don’t care ... we’ll
work ... there’s snow in Siberia.... I love driving in the snow ... and
must have bells.... Do you hear, there’s a bell ringing? Where is that
bell ringing? There are people coming.... Now it’s stopped.”

She closed her eyes, exhausted, and suddenly fell asleep for an
instant. There had certainly been the sound of a bell in the distance,
but the ringing had ceased. Mitya let his head sink on her breast. He
did not notice that the bell had ceased ringing, nor did he notice that
the songs had ceased, and that instead of singing and drunken clamor
there was absolute stillness in the house. Grushenka opened her eyes.

“What’s the matter? Was I asleep? Yes ... a bell ... I’ve been asleep
and dreamt I was driving over the snow with bells, and I dozed. I was
with some one I loved, with you. And far, far away. I was holding you
and kissing you, nestling close to you. I was cold, and the snow
glistened.... You know how the snow glistens at night when the moon
shines. It was as though I was not on earth. I woke up, and my dear one
is close to me. How sweet that is!...”

“Close to you,” murmured Mitya, kissing her dress, her bosom, her
hands. And suddenly he had a strange fancy: it seemed to him that she
was looking straight before her, not at him, not into his face, but
over his head, with an intent, almost uncanny fixity. An expression of
wonder, almost of alarm, came suddenly into her face.

“Mitya, who is that looking at us?” she whispered.

Mitya turned, and saw that some one had, in fact, parted the curtains
and seemed to be watching them. And not one person alone, it seemed.

He jumped up and walked quickly to the intruder.

“Here, come to us, come here,” said a voice, speaking not loudly, but
firmly and peremptorily.

Mitya passed to the other side of the curtain and stood stock still.
The room was filled with people, but not those who had been there
before. An instantaneous shiver ran down his back, and he shuddered. He
recognized all those people instantly. That tall, stout old man in the
overcoat and forage-cap with a cockade—was the police captain, Mihail
Makarovitch. And that “consumptive-looking” trim dandy, “who always has
such polished boots”—that was the deputy prosecutor. “He has a
chronometer worth four hundred roubles; he showed it to me.” And that
small young man in spectacles.... Mitya forgot his surname though he
knew him, had seen him: he was the “investigating lawyer,” from the
“school of jurisprudence,” who had only lately come to the town. And
this man—the inspector of police, Mavriky Mavrikyevitch, a man he knew
well. And those fellows with the brass plates on, why are they here?
And those other two ... peasants.... And there at the door Kalganov
with Trifon Borissovitch....

“Gentlemen! What’s this for, gentlemen?” began Mitya, but suddenly, as
though beside himself, not knowing what he was doing, he cried aloud,
at the top of his voice:

“I un—der—stand!”

The young man in spectacles moved forward suddenly, and stepping up to
Mitya, began with dignity, though hurriedly:

“We have to make ... in brief, I beg you to come this way, this way to
the sofa.... It is absolutely imperative that you should give an
explanation.”

“The old man!” cried Mitya frantically. “The old man and his blood!...
I understand.”

And he sank, almost fell, on a chair close by, as though he had been
mown down by a scythe.

“You understand? He understands it! Monster and parricide! Your
father’s blood cries out against you!” the old captain of police roared
suddenly, stepping up to Mitya.

He was beside himself, crimson in the face and quivering all over.

“This is impossible!” cried the small young man. “Mihail Makarovitch,
Mihail Makarovitch, this won’t do!... I beg you’ll allow me to speak. I
should never have expected such behavior from you....”

“This is delirium, gentlemen, raving delirium,” cried the captain of
police; “look at him: drunk, at this time of night, in the company of a
disreputable woman, with the blood of his father on his hands.... It’s
delirium!...”

“I beg you most earnestly, dear Mihail Makarovitch, to restrain your
feelings,” the prosecutor said in a rapid whisper to the old police
captain, “or I shall be forced to resort to—”

But the little lawyer did not allow him to finish. He turned to Mitya,
and delivered himself in a loud, firm, dignified voice:

“Ex-Lieutenant Karamazov, it is my duty to inform you that you are
charged with the murder of your father, Fyodor Pavlovitch Karamazov,
perpetrated this night....”

He said something more, and the prosecutor, too, put in something, but
though Mitya heard them he did not understand them. He stared at them
all with wild eyes.




Book IX. The Preliminary Investigation




Chapter I.
The Beginning Of Perhotin’s Official Career


Pyotr Ilyitch Perhotin, whom we left knocking at the strong locked
gates of the widow Morozov’s house, ended, of course, by making himself
heard. Fenya, who was still excited by the fright she had had two hours
before, and too much “upset” to go to bed, was almost frightened into
hysterics on hearing the furious knocking at the gate. Though she had
herself seen him drive away, she fancied that it must be Dmitri
Fyodorovitch knocking again, no one else could knock so savagely. She
ran to the house-porter, who had already waked up and gone out to the
gate, and began imploring him not to open it. But having questioned
Pyotr Ilyitch, and learned that he wanted to see Fenya on very
“important business,” the man made up his mind at last to open. Pyotr
Ilyitch was admitted into Fenya’s kitchen, but the girl begged him to
allow the house-porter to be present, “because of her misgivings.” He
began questioning her and at once learnt the most vital fact, that is,
that when Dmitri Fyodorovitch had run out to look for Grushenka, he had
snatched up a pestle from the mortar, and that when he returned, the
pestle was not with him and his hands were smeared with blood.

“And the blood was simply flowing, dripping from him, dripping!” Fenya
kept exclaiming. This horrible detail was simply the product of her
disordered imagination. But although not “dripping,” Pyotr Ilyitch had
himself seen those hands stained with blood, and had helped to wash
them. Moreover, the question he had to decide was not how soon the
blood had dried, but where Dmitri Fyodorovitch had run with the pestle,
or rather, whether it really was to Fyodor Pavlovitch’s, and how he
could satisfactorily ascertain. Pyotr Ilyitch persisted in returning to
this point, and though he found out nothing conclusive, yet he carried
away a conviction that Dmitri Fyodorovitch could have gone nowhere but
to his father’s house, and that therefore something must have happened
there.

“And when he came back,” Fenya added with excitement, “I told him the
whole story, and then I began asking him, ‘Why have you got blood on
your hands, Dmitri Fyodorovitch?’ and he answered that that was human
blood, and that he had just killed some one. He confessed it all to me,
and suddenly ran off like a madman. I sat down and began thinking,
where’s he run off to now like a madman? He’ll go to Mokroe, I thought,
and kill my mistress there. I ran out to beg him not to kill her. I was
running to his lodgings, but I looked at Plotnikov’s shop, and saw him
just setting off, and there was no blood on his hands then.” (Fenya had
noticed this and remembered it.) Fenya’s old grandmother confirmed her
evidence as far as she was capable. After asking some further
questions, Pyotr Ilyitch left the house, even more upset and uneasy
than he had been when he entered it.

The most direct and the easiest thing for him to do would have been to
go straight to Fyodor Pavlovitch’s, to find out whether anything had
happened there, and if so, what; and only to go to the police captain,
as Pyotr Ilyitch firmly intended doing, when he had satisfied himself
of the fact. But the night was dark, Fyodor Pavlovitch’s gates were
strong, and he would have to knock again. His acquaintance with Fyodor
Pavlovitch was of the slightest, and what if, after he had been
knocking, they opened to him, and nothing had happened? Then Fyodor
Pavlovitch in his jeering way would go telling the story all over the
town, how a stranger, called Perhotin, had broken in upon him at
midnight to ask if any one had killed him. It would make a scandal. And
scandal was what Pyotr Ilyitch dreaded more than anything in the world.

Yet the feeling that possessed him was so strong, that though he
stamped his foot angrily and swore at himself, he set off again, not to
Fyodor Pavlovitch’s but to Madame Hohlakov’s. He decided that if she
denied having just given Dmitri Fyodorovitch three thousand roubles, he
would go straight to the police captain, but if she admitted having
given him the money, he would go home and let the matter rest till next
morning.

It is, of course, perfectly evident that there was even more likelihood
of causing scandal by going at eleven o’clock at night to a fashionable
lady, a complete stranger, and perhaps rousing her from her bed to ask
her an amazing question, than by going to Fyodor Pavlovitch. But that
is just how it is, sometimes, especially in cases like the present one,
with the decisions of the most precise and phlegmatic people. Pyotr
Ilyitch was by no means phlegmatic at that moment. He remembered all
his life how a haunting uneasiness gradually gained possession of him,
growing more and more painful and driving him on, against his will. Yet
he kept cursing himself, of course, all the way for going to this lady,
but “I will get to the bottom of it, I will!” he repeated for the tenth
time, grinding his teeth, and he carried out his intention.

It was exactly eleven o’clock when he entered Madame Hohlakov’s house.
He was admitted into the yard pretty quickly, but, in response to his
inquiry whether the lady was still up, the porter could give no answer,
except that she was usually in bed by that time.

“Ask at the top of the stairs. If the lady wants to receive you, she’ll
receive you. If she won’t, she won’t.”

Pyotr Ilyitch went up, but did not find things so easy here. The
footman was unwilling to take in his name, but finally called a maid.
Pyotr Ilyitch politely but insistently begged her to inform her lady
that an official, living in the town, called Perhotin, had called on
particular business, and that if it were not of the greatest importance
he would not have ventured to come. “Tell her in those words, in those
words exactly,” he asked the girl.

She went away. He remained waiting in the entry. Madame Hohlakov
herself was already in her bedroom, though not yet asleep. She had felt
upset ever since Mitya’s visit, and had a presentiment that she would
not get through the night without the sick headache which always, with
her, followed such excitement. She was surprised on hearing the
announcement from the maid. She irritably declined to see him, however,
though the unexpected visit at such an hour, of an “official living in
the town,” who was a total stranger, roused her feminine curiosity
intensely. But this time Pyotr Ilyitch was as obstinate as a mule. He
begged the maid most earnestly to take another message in these very
words:

“That he had come on business of the greatest importance, and that
Madame Hohlakov might have cause to regret it later, if she refused to
see him now.”

“I plunged headlong,” he described it afterwards.

The maid, gazing at him in amazement, went to take his message again.
Madame Hohlakov was impressed. She thought a little, asked what he
looked like, and learned that he was “very well dressed, young and so
polite.” We may note, parenthetically, that Pyotr Ilyitch was a rather
good-looking young man, and well aware of the fact. Madame Hohlakov
made up her mind to see him. She was in her dressing-gown and slippers,
but she flung a black shawl over her shoulders. “The official” was
asked to walk into the drawing-room, the very room in which Mitya had
been received shortly before. The lady came to meet her visitor, with a
sternly inquiring countenance, and, without asking him to sit down,
began at once with the question:

“What do you want?”

“I have ventured to disturb you, madam, on a matter concerning our
common acquaintance, Dmitri Fyodorovitch Karamazov,” Perhotin began.

But he had hardly uttered the name, when the lady’s face showed signs
of acute irritation. She almost shrieked, and interrupted him in a
fury:

“How much longer am I to be worried by that awful man?” she cried
hysterically. “How dare you, sir, how could you venture to disturb a
lady who is a stranger to you, in her own house at such an hour!... And
to force yourself upon her to talk of a man who came here, to this very
drawing-room, only three hours ago, to murder me, and went stamping out
of the room, as no one would go out of a decent house. Let me tell you,
sir, that I shall lodge a complaint against you, that I will not let it
pass. Kindly leave me at once.... I am a mother.... I ... I—”

“Murder! then he tried to murder you, too?”

“Why, has he killed somebody else?” Madame Hohlakov asked impulsively.

“If you would kindly listen, madam, for half a moment, I’ll explain it
all in a couple of words,” answered Perhotin, firmly. “At five o’clock
this afternoon Dmitri Fyodorovitch borrowed ten roubles from me, and I
know for a fact he had no money. Yet at nine o’clock, he came to see me
with a bundle of hundred-rouble notes in his hand, about two or three
thousand roubles. His hands and face were all covered with blood, and
he looked like a madman. When I asked him where he had got so much
money, he answered that he had just received it from you, that you had
given him a sum of three thousand to go to the gold-mines....”

Madame Hohlakov’s face assumed an expression of intense and painful
excitement.

“Good God! He must have killed his old father!” she cried, clasping her
hands. “I have never given him money, never! Oh, run, run!... Don’t say
another word! Save the old man ... run to his father ... run!”

“Excuse me, madam, then you did not give him money? You remember for a
fact that you did not give him any money?”

“No, I didn’t, I didn’t! I refused to give it him, for he could not
appreciate it. He ran out in a fury, stamping. He rushed at me, but I
slipped away.... And let me tell you, as I wish to hide nothing from
you now, that he positively spat at me. Can you fancy that! But why are
we standing? Ah, sit down.”

“Excuse me, I....”

“Or better run, run, you must run and save the poor old man from an
awful death!”

“But if he has killed him already?”

“Ah, good heavens, yes! Then what are we to do now? What do you think
we must do now?”

Meantime she had made Pyotr Ilyitch sit down and sat down herself,
facing him. Briefly, but fairly clearly, Pyotr Ilyitch told her the
history of the affair, that part of it at least which he had himself
witnessed. He described, too, his visit to Fenya, and told her about
the pestle. All these details produced an overwhelming effect on the
distracted lady, who kept uttering shrieks, and covering her face with
her hands....

“Would you believe it, I foresaw all this! I have that special faculty,
whatever I imagine comes to pass. And how often I’ve looked at that
awful man and always thought, that man will end by murdering me. And
now it’s happened ... that is, if he hasn’t murdered me, but only his
own father, it’s only because the finger of God preserved me, and
what’s more, he was ashamed to murder me because, in this very place, I
put the holy ikon from the relics of the holy martyr, Saint Varvara, on
his neck.... And to think how near I was to death at that minute, I
went close up to him and he stretched out his neck to me!... Do you
know, Pyotr Ilyitch (I think you said your name was Pyotr Ilyitch), I
don’t believe in miracles, but that ikon and this unmistakable miracle
with me now—that shakes me, and I’m ready to believe in anything you
like. Have you heard about Father Zossima?... But I don’t know what I’m
saying ... and only fancy, with the ikon on his neck he spat at me....
He only spat, it’s true, he didn’t murder me and ... he dashed away!
But what shall we do, what must we do now? What do you think?”

Pyotr Ilyitch got up, and announced that he was going straight to the
police captain, to tell him all about it, and leave him to do what he
thought fit.

“Oh, he’s an excellent man, excellent! Mihail Makarovitch, I know him.
Of course, he’s the person to go to. How practical you are, Pyotr
Ilyitch! How well you’ve thought of everything! I should never have
thought of it in your place!”

“Especially as I know the police captain very well, too,” observed
Pyotr Ilyitch, who still continued to stand, and was obviously anxious
to escape as quickly as possible from the impulsive lady, who would not
let him say good-by and go away.

“And be sure, be sure,” she prattled on, “to come back and tell me what
you see there, and what you find out ... what comes to light ... how
they’ll try him ... and what he’s condemned to.... Tell me, we have no
capital punishment, have we? But be sure to come, even if it’s at three
o’clock at night, at four, at half-past four.... Tell them to wake me,
to wake me, to shake me, if I don’t get up.... But, good heavens, I
shan’t sleep! But wait, hadn’t I better come with you?”

“N—no. But if you would write three lines with your own hand, stating
that you did not give Dmitri Fyodorovitch money, it might, perhaps, be
of use ... in case it’s needed....”

“To be sure!” Madame Hohlakov skipped, delighted, to her bureau. “And
you know I’m simply struck, amazed at your resourcefulness, your good
sense in such affairs. Are you in the service here? I’m delighted to
think that you’re in the service here!”

And still speaking, she scribbled on half a sheet of notepaper the
following lines:

I’ve never in my life lent to that unhappy man, Dmitri Fyodorovitch
Karamazov (for, in spite of all, he is unhappy), three thousand roubles
to-day. I’ve never given him money, never: That I swear by all that’s
holy!


K. HOHLAKOV.


“Here’s the note!” she turned quickly to Pyotr Ilyitch. “Go, save him.
It’s a noble deed on your part!”

And she made the sign of the cross three times over him. She ran out to
accompany him to the passage.

“How grateful I am to you! You can’t think how grateful I am to you for
having come to me, first. How is it I haven’t met you before? I shall
feel flattered at seeing you at my house in the future. How delightful
it is that you are living here!... Such precision! Such practical
ability!... They must appreciate you, they must understand you. If
there’s anything I can do, believe me ... oh, I love young people! I’m
in love with young people! The younger generation are the one prop of
our suffering country. Her one hope.... Oh, go, go!...”

But Pyotr Ilyitch had already run away or she would not have let him go
so soon. Yet Madame Hohlakov had made a rather agreeable impression on
him, which had somewhat softened his anxiety at being drawn into such
an unpleasant affair. Tastes differ, as we all know. “She’s by no means
so elderly,” he thought, feeling pleased, “on the contrary I should
have taken her for her daughter.”

As for Madame Hohlakov, she was simply enchanted by the young man.
“Such sense! such exactness! in so young a man! in our day! and all
that with such manners and appearance! People say the young people of
to-day are no good for anything, but here’s an example!” etc. So she
simply forgot this “dreadful affair,” and it was only as she was
getting into bed, that, suddenly recalling “how near death she had
been,” she exclaimed: “Ah, it is awful, awful!”

But she fell at once into a sound, sweet sleep.

I would not, however, have dwelt on such trivial and irrelevant
details, if this eccentric meeting of the young official with the by no
means elderly widow had not subsequently turned out to be the
foundation of the whole career of that practical and precise young man.
His story is remembered to this day with amazement in our town, and I
shall perhaps have something to say about it, when I have finished my
long history of the Brothers Karamazov.




Chapter II.
The Alarm


Our police captain, Mihail Makarovitch Makarov, a retired lieutenant-colonel, 
was a widower and an excellent man. He had only come to us
three years previously, but had won general esteem, chiefly because he
“knew how to keep society together.” He was never without visitors, and
could not have got on without them. Some one or other was always dining
with him; he never sat down to table without guests. He gave regular
dinners, too, on all sorts of occasions, sometimes most surprising
ones. Though the fare was not _recherché_, it was abundant. The
fish-pies were excellent, and the wine made up in quantity for what it
lacked in quality.

The first room his guests entered was a well-fitted billiard-room, with
pictures of English race-horses, in black frames on the walls, an
essential decoration, as we all know, for a bachelor’s billiard-room.
There was card-playing every evening at his house, if only at one
table. But at frequent intervals, all the society of our town, with the
mammas and young ladies, assembled at his house to dance. Though Mihail
Makarovitch was a widower, he did not live alone. His widowed daughter
lived with him, with her two unmarried daughters, grown-up girls, who
had finished their education. They were of agreeable appearance and
lively character, and though every one knew they would have no dowry,
they attracted all the young men of fashion to their grandfather’s
house.

Mihail Makarovitch was by no means very efficient in his work, though
he performed his duties no worse than many others. To speak plainly, he
was a man of rather narrow education. His understanding of the limits
of his administrative power could not always be relied upon. It was not
so much that he failed to grasp certain reforms enacted during the
present reign, as that he made conspicuous blunders in his
interpretation of them. This was not from any special lack of
intelligence, but from carelessness, for he was always in too great a
hurry to go into the subject.

“I have the heart of a soldier rather than of a civilian,” he used to
say of himself. He had not even formed a definite idea of the
fundamental principles of the reforms connected with the emancipation
of the serfs, and only picked it up, so to speak, from year to year,
involuntarily increasing his knowledge by practice. And yet he was
himself a landowner. Pyotr Ilyitch knew for certain that he would meet
some of Mihail Makarovitch’s visitors there that evening, but he didn’t
know which. As it happened, at that moment the prosecutor, and
Varvinsky, our district doctor, a young man, who had only just come to
us from Petersburg after taking a brilliant degree at the Academy of
Medicine, were playing whist at the police captain’s. Ippolit
Kirillovitch, the prosecutor (he was really the deputy prosecutor, but
we always called him the prosecutor), was rather a peculiar man, of
about five and thirty, inclined to be consumptive, and married to a fat
and childless woman. He was vain and irritable, though he had a good
intellect, and even a kind heart. It seemed that all that was wrong
with him was that he had a better opinion of himself than his ability
warranted. And that made him seem constantly uneasy. He had, moreover,
certain higher, even artistic, leanings, towards psychology, for
instance, a special study of the human heart, a special knowledge of
the criminal and his crime. He cherished a grievance on this ground,
considering that he had been passed over in the service, and being
firmly persuaded that in higher spheres he had not been properly
appreciated, and had enemies. In gloomy moments he even threatened to
give up his post, and practice as a barrister in criminal cases. The
unexpected Karamazov case agitated him profoundly: “It was a case that
might well be talked about all over Russia.” But I am anticipating.

Nikolay Parfenovitch Nelyudov, the young investigating lawyer, who had
only come from Petersburg two months before, was sitting in the next
room with the young ladies. People talked about it afterwards and
wondered that all the gentlemen should, as though intentionally, on the
evening of “the crime” have been gathered together at the house of the
executive authority. Yet it was perfectly simple and happened quite
naturally.

Ippolit Kirillovitch’s wife had had toothache for the last two days,
and he was obliged to go out to escape from her groans. The doctor,
from the very nature of his being, could not spend an evening except at
cards. Nikolay Parfenovitch Nelyudov had been intending for three days
past to drop in that evening at Mihail Makarovitch’s, so to speak
casually, so as slyly to startle the eldest granddaughter, Olga
Mihailovna, by showing that he knew her secret, that he knew it was her
birthday, and that she was trying to conceal it on purpose, so as not
to be obliged to give a dance. He anticipated a great deal of
merriment, many playful jests about her age, and her being afraid to
reveal it, about his knowing her secret and telling everybody, and so
on. The charming young man was a great adept at such teasing; the
ladies had christened him “the naughty man,” and he seemed to be
delighted at the name. He was extremely well-bred, however, of good
family, education and feelings, and, though leading a life of pleasure,
his sallies were always innocent and in good taste. He was short, and
delicate-looking. On his white, slender, little fingers he always wore
a number of big, glittering rings. When he was engaged in his official
duties, he always became extraordinarily grave, as though realizing his
position and the sanctity of the obligations laid upon him. He had a
special gift for mystifying murderers and other criminals of the
peasant class during interrogation, and if he did not win their
respect, he certainly succeeded in arousing their wonder.

Pyotr Ilyitch was simply dumbfounded when he went into the police
captain’s. He saw instantly that every one knew. They had positively
thrown down their cards, all were standing up and talking. Even Nikolay
Parfenovitch had left the young ladies and run in, looking strenuous
and ready for action. Pyotr Ilyitch was met with the astounding news
that old Fyodor Pavlovitch really had been murdered that evening in his
own house, murdered and robbed. The news had only just reached them in
the following manner.

Marfa Ignatyevna, the wife of old Grigory, who had been knocked
senseless near the fence, was sleeping soundly in her bed and might
well have slept till morning after the draught she had taken. But, all
of a sudden she waked up, no doubt roused by a fearful epileptic scream
from Smerdyakov, who was lying in the next room unconscious. That
scream always preceded his fits, and always terrified and upset Marfa
Ignatyevna. She could never get accustomed to it. She jumped up and ran
half-awake to Smerdyakov’s room. But it was dark there, and she could
only hear the invalid beginning to gasp and struggle. Then Marfa
Ignatyevna herself screamed out and was going to call her husband, but
suddenly realized that when she had got up, he was not beside her in
bed. She ran back to the bedstead and began groping with her hands, but
the bed was really empty. Then he must have gone out—where? She ran to
the steps and timidly called him. She got no answer, of course, but she
caught the sound of groans far away in the garden in the darkness. She
listened. The groans were repeated, and it was evident they came from
the garden.

“Good Lord! Just as it was with Lizaveta Smerdyastchaya!” she thought
distractedly. She went timidly down the steps and saw that the gate
into the garden was open.

“He must be out there, poor dear,” she thought. She went up to the gate
and all at once she distinctly heard Grigory calling her by name,
“Marfa! Marfa!” in a weak, moaning, dreadful voice.

“Lord, preserve us from harm!” Marfa Ignatyevna murmured, and ran
towards the voice, and that was how she found Grigory. But she found
him not by the fence where he had been knocked down, but about twenty
paces off. It appeared later, that he had crawled away on coming to
himself, and probably had been a long time getting so far, losing
consciousness several times. She noticed at once that he was covered
with blood, and screamed at the top of her voice. Grigory was muttering
incoherently:

“He has murdered ... his father murdered.... Why scream, silly ... run
... fetch some one....”

But Marfa continued screaming, and seeing that her master’s window was
open and that there was a candle alight in the window, she ran there
and began calling Fyodor Pavlovitch. But peeping in at the window, she
saw a fearful sight. Her master was lying on his back, motionless, on
the floor. His light-colored dressing-gown and white shirt were soaked
with blood. The candle on the table brightly lighted up the blood and
the motionless dead face of Fyodor Pavlovitch. Terror-stricken, Marfa
rushed away from the window, ran out of the garden, drew the bolt of
the big gate and ran headlong by the back way to the neighbor, Marya
Kondratyevna. Both mother and daughter were asleep, but they waked up
at Marfa’s desperate and persistent screaming and knocking at the
shutter. Marfa, shrieking and screaming incoherently, managed to tell
them the main fact, and to beg for assistance. It happened that Foma
had come back from his wanderings and was staying the night with them.
They got him up immediately and all three ran to the scene of the
crime. On the way, Marya Kondratyevna remembered that at about eight
o’clock she heard a dreadful scream from their garden, and this was no
doubt Grigory’s scream, “Parricide!” uttered when he caught hold of
Mitya’s leg.

“Some one person screamed out and then was silent,” Marya Kondratyevna
explained as she ran. Running to the place where Grigory lay, the two
women with the help of Foma carried him to the lodge. They lighted a
candle and saw that Smerdyakov was no better, that he was writhing in
convulsions, his eyes fixed in a squint, and that foam was flowing from
his lips. They moistened Grigory’s forehead with water mixed with
vinegar, and the water revived him at once. He asked immediately:

“Is the master murdered?”

Then Foma and both the women ran to the house and saw this time that
not only the window, but also the door into the garden was wide open,
though Fyodor Pavlovitch had for the last week locked himself in every
night and did not allow even Grigory to come in on any pretext. Seeing
that door open, they were afraid to go in to Fyodor Pavlovitch “for
fear anything should happen afterwards.” And when they returned to
Grigory, the old man told them to go straight to the police captain.
Marya Kondratyevna ran there and gave the alarm to the whole party at
the police captain’s. She arrived only five minutes before Pyotr
Ilyitch, so that his story came, not as his own surmise and theory, but
as the direct confirmation, by a witness, of the theory held by all, as
to the identity of the criminal (a theory he had in the bottom of his
heart refused to believe till that moment).

It was resolved to act with energy. The deputy police inspector of the
town was commissioned to take four witnesses, to enter Fyodor
Pavlovitch’s house and there to open an inquiry on the spot, according
to the regular forms, which I will not go into here. The district
doctor, a zealous man, new to his work, almost insisted on accompanying
the police captain, the prosecutor, and the investigating lawyer.

I will note briefly that Fyodor Pavlovitch was found to be quite dead,
with his skull battered in. But with what? Most likely with the same
weapon with which Grigory had been attacked. And immediately that
weapon was found, Grigory, to whom all possible medical assistance was
at once given, described in a weak and breaking voice how he had been
knocked down. They began looking with a lantern by the fence and found
the brass pestle dropped in a most conspicuous place on the garden
path. There were no signs of disturbance in the room where Fyodor
Pavlovitch was lying. But by the bed, behind the screen, they picked up
from the floor a big and thick envelope with the inscription: “A
present of three thousand roubles for my angel Grushenka, if she is
willing to come.” And below had been added by Fyodor Pavlovitch, “For
my little chicken.” There were three seals of red sealing-wax on the
envelope, but it had been torn open and was empty: the money had been
removed. They found also on the floor a piece of narrow pink ribbon,
with which the envelope had been tied up.

One piece of Pyotr Ilyitch’s evidence made a great impression on the
prosecutor and the investigating magistrate, namely, his idea that
Dmitri Fyodorovitch would shoot himself before daybreak, that he had
resolved to do so, had spoken of it to Ilyitch, had taken the pistols,
loaded them before him, written a letter, put it in his pocket, etc.
When Pyotr Ilyitch, though still unwilling to believe in it, threatened
to tell some one so as to prevent the suicide, Mitya had answered
grinning: “You’ll be too late.” So they must make haste to Mokroe to
find the criminal, before he really did shoot himself.

“That’s clear, that’s clear!” repeated the prosecutor in great
excitement. “That’s just the way with mad fellows like that: ‘I shall
kill myself to-morrow, so I’ll make merry till I die!’”

The story of how he had bought the wine and provisions excited the
prosecutor more than ever.

“Do you remember the fellow that murdered a merchant called Olsufyev,
gentlemen? He stole fifteen hundred, went at once to have his hair
curled, and then, without even hiding the money, carrying it almost in
his hand in the same way, he went off to the girls.”

All were delayed, however, by the inquiry, the search, and the
formalities, etc., in the house of Fyodor Pavlovitch. It all took time
and so, two hours before starting, they sent on ahead to Mokroe the
officer of the rural police, Mavriky Mavrikyevitch Schmertsov, who had
arrived in the town the morning before to get his pay. He was
instructed to avoid raising the alarm when he reached Mokroe, but to
keep constant watch over the “criminal” till the arrival of the proper
authorities, to procure also witnesses for the arrest, police
constables, and so on. Mavriky Mavrikyevitch did as he was told,
preserving his incognito, and giving no one but his old acquaintance,
Trifon Borissovitch, the slightest hint of his secret business. He had
spoken to him just before Mitya met the landlord in the balcony,
looking for him in the dark, and noticed at once a change in Trifon
Borissovitch’s face and voice. So neither Mitya nor any one else knew
that he was being watched. The box with the pistols had been carried
off by Trifon Borissovitch and put in a suitable place. Only after four
o’clock, almost at sunrise, all the officials, the police captain, the
prosecutor, the investigating lawyer, drove up in two carriages, each
drawn by three horses. The doctor remained at Fyodor Pavlovitch’s to
make a post-mortem next day on the body. But he was particularly
interested in the condition of the servant, Smerdyakov.

“Such violent and protracted epileptic fits, recurring continually for
twenty-four hours, are rarely to be met with, and are of interest to
science,” he declared enthusiastically to his companions, and as they
left they laughingly congratulated him on his find. The prosecutor and
the investigating lawyer distinctly remembered the doctor’s saying that
Smerdyakov could not outlive the night.

After these long, but I think necessary explanations, we will return to
that moment of our tale at which we broke off.




Chapter III.
The Sufferings Of A Soul, The First Ordeal


And so Mitya sat looking wildly at the people round him, not
understanding what was said to him. Suddenly he got up, flung up his
hands, and shouted aloud:

“I’m not guilty! I’m not guilty of that blood! I’m not guilty of my
father’s blood.... I meant to kill him. But I’m not guilty. Not I.”

But he had hardly said this, before Grushenka rushed from behind the
curtain and flung herself at the police captain’s feet.

“It was my fault! Mine! My wickedness!” she cried, in a heartrending
voice, bathed in tears, stretching out her clasped hands towards them.
“He did it through me. I tortured him and drove him to it. I tortured
that poor old man that’s dead, too, in my wickedness, and brought him
to this! It’s my fault, mine first, mine most, my fault!”

“Yes, it’s your fault! You’re the chief criminal! You fury! You harlot!
You’re the most to blame!” shouted the police captain, threatening her
with his hand. But he was quickly and resolutely suppressed. The
prosecutor positively seized hold of him.

“This is absolutely irregular, Mihail Makarovitch!” he cried. “You are
positively hindering the inquiry.... You’re ruining the case....” he
almost gasped.

“Follow the regular course! Follow the regular course!” cried Nikolay
Parfenovitch, fearfully excited too, “otherwise it’s absolutely
impossible!...”

“Judge us together!” Grushenka cried frantically, still kneeling.
“Punish us together. I will go with him now, if it’s to death!”

“Grusha, my life, my blood, my holy one!” Mitya fell on his knees
beside her and held her tight in his arms. “Don’t believe her,” he
cried, “she’s not guilty of anything, of any blood, of anything!”

He remembered afterwards that he was forcibly dragged away from her by
several men, and that she was led out, and that when he recovered
himself he was sitting at the table. Beside him and behind him stood
the men with metal plates. Facing him on the other side of the table
sat Nikolay Parfenovitch, the investigating lawyer. He kept persuading
him to drink a little water out of a glass that stood on the table.

“That will refresh you, that will calm you. Be calm, don’t be
frightened,” he added, extremely politely. Mitya (he remembered it
afterwards) became suddenly intensely interested in his big rings, one
with an amethyst, and another with a transparent bright yellow stone,
of great brilliance. And long afterwards he remembered with wonder how
those rings had riveted his attention through all those terrible hours
of interrogation, so that he was utterly unable to tear himself away
from them and dismiss them, as things that had nothing to do with his
position. On Mitya’s left side, in the place where Maximov had been
sitting at the beginning of the evening, the prosecutor was now seated,
and on Mitya’s right hand, where Grushenka had been, was a rosy-cheeked
young man in a sort of shabby hunting-jacket, with ink and paper before
him. This was the secretary of the investigating lawyer, who had
brought him with him. The police captain was now standing by the window
at the other end of the room, beside Kalganov, who was sitting there.

“Drink some water,” said the investigating lawyer softly, for the tenth
time.

“I have drunk it, gentlemen, I have ... but ... come, gentlemen, crush
me, punish me, decide my fate!” cried Mitya, staring with terribly
fixed wide-open eyes at the investigating lawyer.

“So you positively declare that you are not guilty of the death of your
father, Fyodor Pavlovitch?” asked the investigating lawyer, softly but
insistently.

“I am not guilty. I am guilty of the blood of another old man but not
of my father’s. And I weep for it! I killed, I killed the old man and
knocked him down.... But it’s hard to have to answer for that murder
with another, a terrible murder of which I am not guilty.... It’s a
terrible accusation, gentlemen, a knock-down blow. But who has killed
my father, who has killed him? Who can have killed him if I didn’t?
It’s marvelous, extraordinary, impossible.”

“Yes, who can have killed him?” the investigating lawyer was beginning,
but Ippolit Kirillovitch, the prosecutor, glancing at him, addressed
Mitya.

“You need not worry yourself about the old servant, Grigory
Vassilyevitch. He is alive, he has recovered, and in spite of the
terrible blows inflicted, according to his own and your evidence, by
you, there seems no doubt that he will live, so the doctor says, at
least.”

“Alive? He’s alive?” cried Mitya, flinging up his hands. His face
beamed. “Lord, I thank Thee for the miracle Thou has wrought for me, a
sinner and evildoer. That’s an answer to my prayer. I’ve been praying
all night.” And he crossed himself three times. He was almost
breathless.

“So from this Grigory we have received such important evidence
concerning you, that—” The prosecutor would have continued, but Mitya
suddenly jumped up from his chair.

“One minute, gentlemen, for God’s sake, one minute; I will run to her—”

“Excuse me, at this moment it’s quite impossible,” Nikolay Parfenovitch
almost shrieked. He, too, leapt to his feet. Mitya was seized by the
men with the metal plates, but he sat down of his own accord....

“Gentlemen, what a pity! I wanted to see her for one minute only; I
wanted to tell her that it has been washed away, it has gone, that
blood that was weighing on my heart all night, and that I am not a
murderer now! Gentlemen, she is my betrothed!” he said ecstatically and
reverently, looking round at them all. “Oh, thank you, gentlemen! Oh,
in one minute you have given me new life, new heart!... That old man
used to carry me in his arms, gentlemen. He used to wash me in the tub
when I was a baby three years old, abandoned by every one, he was like
a father to me!...”

“And so you—” the investigating lawyer began.

“Allow me, gentlemen, allow me one minute more,” interposed Mitya,
putting his elbows on the table and covering his face with his hands.
“Let me have a moment to think, let me breathe, gentlemen. All this is
horribly upsetting, horribly. A man is not a drum, gentlemen!”

“Drink a little more water,” murmured Nikolay Parfenovitch.

Mitya took his hands from his face and laughed. His eyes were
confident. He seemed completely transformed in a moment. His whole
bearing was changed; he was once more the equal of these men, with all
of whom he was acquainted, as though they had all met the day before,
when nothing had happened, at some social gathering. We may note in
passing that, on his first arrival, Mitya had been made very welcome at
the police captain’s, but later, during the last month especially,
Mitya had hardly called at all, and when the police captain met him, in
the street, for instance, Mitya noticed that he frowned and only bowed
out of politeness. His acquaintance with the prosecutor was less
intimate, though he sometimes paid his wife, a nervous and fanciful
lady, visits of politeness, without quite knowing why, and she always
received him graciously and had, for some reason, taken an interest in
him up to the last. He had not had time to get to know the
investigating lawyer, though he had met him and talked to him twice,
each time about the fair sex.

“You’re a most skillful lawyer, I see, Nikolay Parfenovitch,” cried
Mitya, laughing gayly, “but I can help you now. Oh, gentlemen, I feel
like a new man, and don’t be offended at my addressing you so simply
and directly. I’m rather drunk, too, I’ll tell you that frankly. I
believe I’ve had the honor and pleasure of meeting you, Nikolay
Parfenovitch, at my kinsman Miüsov’s. Gentlemen, gentlemen, I don’t
pretend to be on equal terms with you. I understand, of course, in what
character I am sitting before you. Oh, of course, there’s a horrible
suspicion ... hanging over me ... if Grigory has given evidence.... A
horrible suspicion! It’s awful, awful, I understand that! But to
business, gentlemen, I am ready, and we will make an end of it in one
moment; for, listen, listen, gentlemen! Since I know I’m innocent, we
can put an end to it in a minute. Can’t we? Can’t we?”

Mitya spoke much and quickly, nervously and effusively, as though he
positively took his listeners to be his best friends.

“So, for the present, we will write that you absolutely deny the charge
brought against you,” said Nikolay Parfenovitch, impressively, and
bending down to the secretary he dictated to him in an undertone what
to write.

“Write it down? You want to write that down? Well, write it; I consent,
I give my full consent, gentlemen, only ... do you see?... Stay, stay,
write this. Of disorderly conduct I am guilty, of violence on a poor
old man I am guilty. And there is something else at the bottom of my
heart, of which I am guilty, too—but that you need not write down” (he
turned suddenly to the secretary); “that’s my personal life, gentlemen,
that doesn’t concern you, the bottom of my heart, that’s to say.... But
of the murder of my old father I’m not guilty. That’s a wild idea. It’s
quite a wild idea!... I will prove you that and you’ll be convinced
directly.... You will laugh, gentlemen. You’ll laugh yourselves at your
suspicion!...”

“Be calm, Dmitri Fyodorovitch,” said the investigating lawyer evidently
trying to allay Mitya’s excitement by his own composure. “Before we go
on with our inquiry, I should like, if you will consent to answer, to
hear you confirm the statement that you disliked your father, Fyodor
Pavlovitch, that you were involved in continual disputes with him. Here
at least, a quarter of an hour ago, you exclaimed that you wanted to
kill him: ‘I didn’t kill him,’ you said, ‘but I wanted to kill him.’”

“Did I exclaim that? Ach, that may be so, gentlemen! Yes, unhappily, I
did want to kill him ... many times I wanted to ... unhappily,
unhappily!”

“You wanted to. Would you consent to explain what motives precisely led
you to such a sentiment of hatred for your parent?”

“What is there to explain, gentlemen?” Mitya shrugged his shoulders
sullenly, looking down. “I have never concealed my feelings. All the
town knows about it—every one knows in the tavern. Only lately I
declared them in Father Zossima’s cell.... And the very same day, in
the evening I beat my father. I nearly killed him, and I swore I’d come
again and kill him, before witnesses.... Oh, a thousand witnesses! I’ve
been shouting it aloud for the last month, any one can tell you
that!... The fact stares you in the face, it speaks for itself, it
cries aloud, but feelings, gentlemen, feelings are another matter. You
see, gentlemen”—Mitya frowned—“it seems to me that about feelings
you’ve no right to question me. I know that you are bound by your
office, I quite understand that, but that’s my affair, my private,
intimate affair, yet ... since I haven’t concealed my feelings in the
past ... in the tavern, for instance, I’ve talked to every one, so ...
so I won’t make a secret of it now. You see, I understand, gentlemen,
that there are terrible facts against me in this business. I told every
one that I’d kill him, and now, all of a sudden, he’s been killed. So
it must have been me! Ha ha! I can make allowances for you, gentlemen,
I can quite make allowances. I’m struck all of a heap myself, for who
can have murdered him, if not I? That’s what it comes to, isn’t it? If
not I, who can it be, who? Gentlemen, I want to know, I insist on
knowing!” he exclaimed suddenly. “Where was he murdered? How was he
murdered? How, and with what? Tell me,” he asked quickly, looking at
the two lawyers.

“We found him in his study, lying on his back on the floor, with his
head battered in,” said the prosecutor.

“That’s horrible!” Mitya shuddered and, putting his elbows on the
table, hid his face in his right hand.

“We will continue,” interposed Nikolay Parfenovitch. “So what was it
that impelled you to this sentiment of hatred? You have asserted in
public, I believe, that it was based upon jealousy?”

“Well, yes, jealousy. And not only jealousy.”

“Disputes about money?”

“Yes, about money, too.”

“There was a dispute about three thousand roubles, I think, which you
claimed as part of your inheritance?”

“Three thousand! More, more,” cried Mitya hotly; “more than six
thousand, more than ten, perhaps. I told every one so, shouted it at
them. But I made up my mind to let it go at three thousand. I was
desperately in need of that three thousand ... so the bundle of notes
for three thousand that I knew he kept under his pillow, ready for
Grushenka, I considered as simply stolen from me. Yes, gentlemen, I
looked upon it as mine, as my own property....”

The prosecutor looked significantly at the investigating lawyer, and
had time to wink at him on the sly.

“We will return to that subject later,” said the lawyer promptly. “You
will allow us to note that point and write it down; that you looked
upon that money as your own property?”

“Write it down, by all means. I know that’s another fact that tells
against me, but I’m not afraid of facts and I tell them against myself.
Do you hear? Do you know, gentlemen, you take me for a different sort
of man from what I am,” he added, suddenly gloomy and dejected. “You
have to deal with a man of honor, a man of the highest honor; above
all—don’t lose sight of it—a man who’s done a lot of nasty things, but
has always been, and still is, honorable at bottom, in his inner being.
I don’t know how to express it. That’s just what’s made me wretched all
my life, that I yearned to be honorable, that I was, so to say, a
martyr to a sense of honor, seeking for it with a lantern, with the
lantern of Diogenes, and yet all my life I’ve been doing filthy things
like all of us, gentlemen ... that is like me alone. That was a
mistake, like me alone, me alone!... Gentlemen, my head aches ...” His
brows contracted with pain. “You see, gentlemen, I couldn’t bear the
look of him, there was something in him ignoble, impudent, trampling on
everything sacred, something sneering and irreverent, loathsome,
loathsome. But now that he’s dead, I feel differently.”

“How do you mean?”

“I don’t feel differently, but I wish I hadn’t hated him so.”

“You feel penitent?”

“No, not penitent, don’t write that. I’m not much good myself, I’m not
very beautiful, so I had no right to consider him repulsive. That’s
what I mean. Write that down, if you like.”

Saying this Mitya became very mournful. He had grown more and more
gloomy as the inquiry continued.

At that moment another unexpected scene followed. Though Grushenka had
been removed, she had not been taken far away, only into the room next
but one from the blue room, in which the examination was proceeding. It
was a little room with one window, next beyond the large room in which
they had danced and feasted so lavishly. She was sitting there with no
one by her but Maximov, who was terribly depressed, terribly scared,
and clung to her side, as though for security. At their door stood one
of the peasants with a metal plate on his breast. Grushenka was crying,
and suddenly her grief was too much for her, she jumped up, flung up
her arms and, with a loud wail of sorrow, rushed out of the room to
him, to her Mitya, and so unexpectedly that they had not time to stop
her. Mitya, hearing her cry, trembled, jumped up, and with a yell
rushed impetuously to meet her, not knowing what he was doing. But they
were not allowed to come together, though they saw one another. He was
seized by the arms. He struggled, and tried to tear himself away. It
took three or four men to hold him. She was seized too, and he saw her
stretching out her arms to him, crying aloud as they carried her away.
When the scene was over, he came to himself again, sitting in the same
place as before, opposite the investigating lawyer, and crying out to
them:

“What do you want with her? Why do you torment her? She’s done nothing,
nothing!...”

The lawyers tried to soothe him. About ten minutes passed like this. At
last Mihail Makarovitch, who had been absent, came hurriedly into the
room, and said in a loud and excited voice to the prosecutor:

“She’s been removed, she’s downstairs. Will you allow me to say one
word to this unhappy man, gentlemen? In your presence, gentlemen, in
your presence.”

“By all means, Mihail Makarovitch,” answered the investigating lawyer.
“In the present case we have nothing against it.”

“Listen, Dmitri Fyodorovitch, my dear fellow,” began the police
captain, and there was a look of warm, almost fatherly, feeling for the
luckless prisoner on his excited face. “I took your Agrafena
Alexandrovna downstairs myself, and confided her to the care of the
landlord’s daughters, and that old fellow Maximov is with her all the
time. And I soothed her, do you hear? I soothed and calmed her. I
impressed on her that you have to clear yourself, so she mustn’t hinder
you, must not depress you, or you may lose your head and say the wrong
thing in your evidence. In fact, I talked to her and she understood.
She’s a sensible girl, my boy, a good-hearted girl, she would have
kissed my old hands, begging help for you. She sent me herself, to tell
you not to worry about her. And I must go, my dear fellow, I must go
and tell her that you are calm and comforted about her. And so you must
be calm, do you understand? I was unfair to her; she is a Christian
soul, gentlemen, yes, I tell you, she’s a gentle soul, and not to blame
for anything. So what am I to tell her, Dmitri Fyodorovitch? Will you
sit quiet or not?”

The good-natured police captain said a great deal that was irregular,
but Grushenka’s suffering, a fellow creature’s suffering, touched his
good-natured heart, and tears stood in his eyes. Mitya jumped up and
rushed towards him.

“Forgive me, gentlemen, oh, allow me, allow me!” he cried. “You’ve the
heart of an angel, an angel, Mihail Makarovitch, I thank you for her. I
will, I will be calm, cheerful, in fact. Tell her, in the kindness of
your heart, that I am cheerful, quite cheerful, that I shall be
laughing in a minute, knowing that she has a guardian angel like you. I
shall have done with all this directly, and as soon as I’m free, I’ll
be with her, she’ll see, let her wait. Gentlemen,” he said, turning to
the two lawyers, “now I’ll open my whole soul to you; I’ll pour out
everything. We’ll finish this off directly, finish it off gayly. We
shall laugh at it in the end, shan’t we? But, gentlemen, that woman is
the queen of my heart. Oh, let me tell you that. That one thing I’ll
tell you now.... I see I’m with honorable men. She is my light, she is
my holy one, and if only you knew! Did you hear her cry, ‘I’ll go to
death with you’? And what have I, a penniless beggar, done for her? Why
such love for me? How can a clumsy, ugly brute like me, with my ugly
face, deserve such love, that she is ready to go to exile with me? And
how she fell down at your feet for my sake, just now!... and yet she’s
proud and has done nothing! How can I help adoring her, how can I help
crying out and rushing to her as I did just now? Gentlemen, forgive me!
But now, now I am comforted.”

And he sank back in his chair and, covering his face with his hands,
burst into tears. But they were happy tears. He recovered himself
instantly. The old police captain seemed much pleased, and the lawyers
also. They felt that the examination was passing into a new phase. When
the police captain went out, Mitya was positively gay.

“Now, gentlemen, I am at your disposal, entirely at your disposal. And
if it were not for all these trivial details, we should understand one
another in a minute. I’m at those details again. I’m at your disposal,
gentlemen, but I declare that we must have mutual confidence, you in me
and I in you, or there’ll be no end to it. I speak in your interests.
To business, gentlemen, to business, and don’t rummage in my soul;
don’t tease me with trifles, but only ask me about facts and what
matters, and I will satisfy you at once. And damn the details!”

So spoke Mitya. The interrogation began again.




Chapter IV.
The Second Ordeal


“You don’t know how you encourage us, Dmitri Fyodorovitch, by your
readiness to answer,” said Nikolay Parfenovitch, with an animated air,
and obvious satisfaction beaming in his very prominent, short-sighted,
light gray eyes, from which he had removed his spectacles a moment
before. “And you have made a very just remark about the mutual
confidence, without which it is sometimes positively impossible to get
on in cases of such importance, if the suspected party really hopes and
desires to defend himself and is in a position to do so. We, on our
side, will do everything in our power, and you can see for yourself how
we are conducting the case. You approve, Ippolit Kirillovitch?” He
turned to the prosecutor.

“Oh, undoubtedly,” replied the prosecutor. His tone was somewhat cold,
compared with Nikolay Parfenovitch’s impulsiveness.

I will note once for all that Nikolay Parfenovitch, who had but lately
arrived among us, had from the first felt marked respect for Ippolit
Kirillovitch, our prosecutor, and had become almost his bosom friend.
He was almost the only person who put implicit faith in Ippolit
Kirillovitch’s extraordinary talents as a psychologist and orator and
in the justice of his grievance. He had heard of him in Petersburg. On
the other hand, young Nikolay Parfenovitch was the only person in the
whole world whom our “unappreciated” prosecutor genuinely liked. On
their way to Mokroe they had time to come to an understanding about the
present case. And now as they sat at the table, the sharp-witted junior
caught and interpreted every indication on his senior colleague’s
face—half a word, a glance, or a wink.

“Gentlemen, only let me tell my own story and don’t interrupt me with
trivial questions and I’ll tell you everything in a moment,” said Mitya
excitedly.

“Excellent! Thank you. But before we proceed to listen to your
communication, will you allow me to inquire as to another little fact
of great interest to us? I mean the ten roubles you borrowed yesterday
at about five o’clock on the security of your pistols, from your
friend, Pyotr Ilyitch Perhotin.”

“I pledged them, gentlemen. I pledged them for ten roubles. What more?
That’s all about it. As soon as I got back to town I pledged them.”

“You got back to town? Then you had been out of town?”

“Yes, I went a journey of forty versts into the country. Didn’t you
know?”

The prosecutor and Nikolay Parfenovitch exchanged glances.

“Well, how would it be if you began your story with a systematic
description of all you did yesterday, from the morning onwards? Allow
us, for instance, to inquire why you were absent from the town, and
just when you left and when you came back—all those facts.”

“You should have asked me like that from the beginning,” cried Mitya,
laughing aloud, “and, if you like, we won’t begin from yesterday, but
from the morning of the day before; then you’ll understand how, why,
and where I went. I went the day before yesterday, gentlemen, to a
merchant of the town, called Samsonov, to borrow three thousand roubles
from him on safe security. It was a pressing matter, gentlemen, it was
a sudden necessity.”

“Allow me to interrupt you,” the prosecutor put in politely. “Why were
you in such pressing need for just that sum, three thousand?”

“Oh, gentlemen, you needn’t go into details, how, when and why, and why
just so much money, and not so much, and all that rigmarole. Why, it’ll
run to three volumes, and then you’ll want an epilogue!”

Mitya said all this with the good-natured but impatient familiarity of
a man who is anxious to tell the whole truth and is full of the best
intentions.

“Gentlemen!”—he corrected himself hurriedly—“don’t be vexed with me for
my restiveness, I beg you again. Believe me once more, I feel the
greatest respect for you and understand the true position of affairs.
Don’t think I’m drunk. I’m quite sober now. And, besides, being drunk
would be no hindrance. It’s with me, you know, like the saying: ‘When
he is sober, he is a fool; when he is drunk, he is a wise man.’ Ha ha!
But I see, gentlemen, it’s not the proper thing to make jokes to you,
till we’ve had our explanation, I mean. And I’ve my own dignity to keep
up, too. I quite understand the difference for the moment. I am, after
all, in the position of a criminal, and so, far from being on equal
terms with you. And it’s your business to watch me. I can’t expect you
to pat me on the head for what I did to Grigory, for one can’t break
old men’s heads with impunity. I suppose you’ll put me away for him for
six months, or a year perhaps, in a house of correction. I don’t know
what the punishment is—but it will be without loss of the rights of my
rank, without loss of my rank, won’t it? So you see, gentlemen, I
understand the distinction between us.... But you must see that you
could puzzle God Himself with such questions. ‘How did you step? Where
did you step? When did you step? And on what did you step?’ I shall get
mixed up, if you go on like this, and you will put it all down against
me. And what will that lead to? To nothing! And even if it’s nonsense
I’m talking now, let me finish, and you, gentlemen, being men of honor
and refinement, will forgive me! I’ll finish by asking you, gentlemen,
to drop that conventional method of questioning. I mean, beginning from
some miserable trifle, how I got up, what I had for breakfast, how I
spat, and where I spat, and so distracting the attention of the
criminal, suddenly stun him with an overwhelming question, ‘Whom did
you murder? Whom did you rob?’ Ha ha! That’s your regulation method,
that’s where all your cunning comes in. You can put peasants off their
guard like that, but not me. I know the tricks. I’ve been in the
service, too. Ha ha ha! You’re not angry, gentlemen? You forgive my
impertinence?” he cried, looking at them with a good-nature that was
almost surprising. “It’s only Mitya Karamazov, you know, so you can
overlook it. It would be inexcusable in a sensible man; but you can
forgive it in Mitya. Ha ha!”

Nikolay Parfenovitch listened, and laughed too. Though the prosecutor
did not laugh, he kept his eyes fixed keenly on Mitya, as though
anxious not to miss the least syllable, the slightest movement, the
smallest twitch of any feature of his face.

“That’s how we have treated you from the beginning,” said Nikolay
Parfenovitch, still laughing. “We haven’t tried to put you out by
asking how you got up in the morning and what you had for breakfast. We
began, indeed, with questions of the greatest importance.”

“I understand. I saw it and appreciated it, and I appreciate still more
your present kindness to me, an unprecedented kindness, worthy of your
noble hearts. We three here are gentlemen, and let everything be on the
footing of mutual confidence between educated, well-bred people, who
have the common bond of noble birth and honor. In any case, allow me to
look upon you as my best friends at this moment of my life, at this
moment when my honor is assailed. That’s no offense to you, gentlemen,
is it?”

“On the contrary. You’ve expressed all that so well, Dmitri
Fyodorovitch,” Nikolay Parfenovitch answered with dignified
approbation.

“And enough of those trivial questions, gentlemen, all those tricky
questions!” cried Mitya enthusiastically. “Or there’s simply no knowing
where we shall get to! Is there?”

“I will follow your sensible advice entirely,” the prosecutor
interposed, addressing Mitya. “I don’t withdraw my question, however.
It is now vitally important for us to know exactly why you needed that
sum, I mean precisely three thousand.”

“Why I needed it?... Oh, for one thing and another.... Well, it was to
pay a debt.”

“A debt to whom?”

“That I absolutely refuse to answer, gentlemen. Not because I couldn’t,
or because I shouldn’t dare, or because it would be damaging, for it’s
all a paltry matter and absolutely trifling, but—I won’t, because it’s
a matter of principle: that’s my private life, and I won’t allow any
intrusion into my private life. That’s my principle. Your question has
no bearing on the case, and whatever has nothing to do with the case is
my private affair. I wanted to pay a debt. I wanted to pay a debt of
honor but to whom I won’t say.”

“Allow me to make a note of that,” said the prosecutor.

“By all means. Write down that I won’t say, that I won’t. Write that I
should think it dishonorable to say. Ech! you can write it; you’ve
nothing else to do with your time.”

“Allow me to caution you, sir, and to remind you once more, if you are
unaware of it,” the prosecutor began, with a peculiar and stern
impressiveness, “that you have a perfect right not to answer the
questions put to you now, and we on our side have no right to extort an
answer from you, if you decline to give it for one reason or another.
That is entirely a matter for your personal decision. But it is our
duty, on the other hand, in such cases as the present, to explain and
set before you the degree of injury you will be doing yourself by
refusing to give this or that piece of evidence. After which I will beg
you to continue.”

“Gentlemen, I’m not angry ... I ...” Mitya muttered in a rather
disconcerted tone. “Well, gentlemen, you see, that Samsonov to whom I
went then ...”

We will, of course, not reproduce his account of what is known to the
reader already. Mitya was impatiently anxious not to omit the slightest
detail. At the same time he was in a hurry to get it over. But as he
gave his evidence it was written down, and therefore they had
continually to pull him up. Mitya disliked this, but submitted; got
angry, though still good-humoredly. He did, it is true, exclaim, from
time to time, “Gentlemen, that’s enough to make an angel out of
patience!” Or, “Gentlemen, it’s no good your irritating me.”

But even though he exclaimed he still preserved for a time his genially
expansive mood. So he told them how Samsonov had made a fool of him two
days before. (He had completely realized by now that he had been
fooled.) The sale of his watch for six roubles to obtain money for the
journey was something new to the lawyers. They were at once greatly
interested, and even, to Mitya’s intense indignation, thought it
necessary to write the fact down as a secondary confirmation of the
circumstance that he had hardly a farthing in his pocket at the time.
Little by little Mitya began to grow surly. Then, after describing his
journey to see Lyagavy, the night spent in the stifling hut, and so on,
he came to his return to the town. Here he began, without being
particularly urged, to give a minute account of the agonies of jealousy
he endured on Grushenka’s account.

He was heard with silent attention. They inquired particularly into the
circumstance of his having a place of ambush in Marya Kondratyevna’s
house at the back of Fyodor Pavlovitch’s garden to keep watch on
Grushenka, and of Smerdyakov’s bringing him information. They laid
particular stress on this, and noted it down. Of his jealousy he spoke
warmly and at length, and though inwardly ashamed at exposing his most
intimate feelings to “public ignominy,” so to speak, he evidently
overcame his shame in order to tell the truth. The frigid severity,
with which the investigating lawyer, and still more the prosecutor,
stared intently at him as he told his story, disconcerted him at last
considerably.

“That boy, Nikolay Parfenovitch, to whom I was talking nonsense about
women only a few days ago, and that sickly prosecutor are not worth my
telling this to,” he reflected mournfully. “It’s ignominious. ‘Be
patient, humble, hold thy peace.’” He wound up his reflections with
that line. But he pulled himself together to go on again. When he came
to telling of his visit to Madame Hohlakov, he regained his spirits and
even wished to tell a little anecdote of that lady which had nothing to
do with the case. But the investigating lawyer stopped him, and civilly
suggested that he should pass on to “more essential matters.” At last,
when he described his despair and told them how, when he left Madame
Hohlakov’s, he thought that he’d “get three thousand if he had to
murder some one to do it,” they stopped him again and noted down that
he had “meant to murder some one.” Mitya let them write it without
protest. At last he reached the point in his story when he learned that
Grushenka had deceived him and had returned from Samsonov’s as soon as
he left her there, though she had said that she would stay there till
midnight.

“If I didn’t kill Fenya then, gentlemen, it was only because I hadn’t
time,” broke from him suddenly at that point in his story. That, too,
was carefully written down. Mitya waited gloomily, and was beginning to
tell how he ran into his father’s garden when the investigating lawyer
suddenly stopped him, and opening the big portfolio that lay on the
sofa beside him he brought out the brass pestle.

“Do you recognize this object?” he asked, showing it to Mitya.

“Oh, yes,” he laughed gloomily. “Of course I recognize it. Let me have
a look at it.... Damn it, never mind!”

“You have forgotten to mention it,” observed the investigating lawyer.

“Hang it all, I shouldn’t have concealed it from you. Do you suppose I
could have managed without it? It simply escaped my memory.”

“Be so good as to tell us precisely how you came to arm yourself with
it.”

“Certainly I will be so good, gentlemen.”

And Mitya described how he took the pestle and ran.

“But what object had you in view in arming yourself with such a
weapon?”

“What object? No object. I just picked it up and ran off.”

“What for, if you had no object?”

Mitya’s wrath flared up. He looked intently at “the boy” and smiled
gloomily and malignantly. He was feeling more and more ashamed at
having told “such people” the story of his jealousy so sincerely and
spontaneously.

“Bother the pestle!” broke from him suddenly.

“But still—”

“Oh, to keep off dogs.... Oh, because it was dark.... In case anything
turned up.”

“But have you ever on previous occasions taken a weapon with you when
you went out, since you’re afraid of the dark?”

“Ugh! damn it all, gentlemen! There’s positively no talking to you!”
cried Mitya, exasperated beyond endurance, and turning to the
secretary, crimson with anger, he said quickly, with a note of fury in
his voice:

“Write down at once ... at once ... ‘that I snatched up the pestle to
go and kill my father ... Fyodor Pavlovitch ... by hitting him on the
head with it!’ Well, now are you satisfied, gentlemen? Are your minds
relieved?” he said, glaring defiantly at the lawyers.

“We quite understand that you made that statement just now through
exasperation with us and the questions we put to you, which you
consider trivial, though they are, in fact, essential,” the prosecutor
remarked dryly in reply.

“Well, upon my word, gentlemen! Yes, I took the pestle.... What does
one pick things up for at such moments? I don’t know what for. I
snatched it up and ran—that’s all. For to me, gentlemen, _passons_, or
I declare I won’t tell you any more.”

He sat with his elbows on the table and his head in his hand. He sat
sideways to them and gazed at the wall, struggling against a feeling of
nausea. He had, in fact, an awful inclination to get up and declare
that he wouldn’t say another word, “not if you hang me for it.”

“You see, gentlemen,” he said at last, with difficulty controlling
himself, “you see. I listen to you and am haunted by a dream.... It’s a
dream I have sometimes, you know.... I often dream it—it’s always the
same ... that some one is hunting me, some one I’m awfully afraid of
... that he’s hunting me in the dark, in the night ... tracking me, and
I hide somewhere from him, behind a door or cupboard, hide in a
degrading way, and the worst of it is, he always knows where I am, but
he pretends not to know where I am on purpose, to prolong my agony, to
enjoy my terror.... That’s just what you’re doing now. It’s just like
that!”

“Is that the sort of thing you dream about?” inquired the prosecutor.

“Yes, it is. Don’t you want to write it down?” said Mitya, with a
distorted smile.

“No; no need to write it down. But still you do have curious dreams.”

“It’s not a question of dreams now, gentlemen—this is realism, this is
real life! I’m a wolf and you’re the hunters. Well, hunt him down!”

“You are wrong to make such comparisons ...” began Nikolay
Parfenovitch, with extraordinary softness.

“No, I’m not wrong, not at all!” Mitya flared up again, though his
outburst of wrath had obviously relieved his heart. He grew more 
good-humored at every word. “You may not trust a criminal or a man on trial
tortured by your questions, but an honorable man, the honorable
impulses of the heart (I say that boldly!)—no! That you must believe
you have no right indeed ... but—

Be silent, heart,
Be patient, humble, hold thy peace.


Well, shall I go on?” he broke off gloomily.

“If you’ll be so kind,” answered Nikolay Parfenovitch.




Chapter V.
The Third Ordeal


Though Mitya spoke sullenly, it was evident that he was trying more
than ever not to forget or miss a single detail of his story. He told
them how he had leapt over the fence into his father’s garden; how he
had gone up to the window; told them all that had passed under the
window. Clearly, precisely, distinctly, he described the feelings that
troubled him during those moments in the garden when he longed so
terribly to know whether Grushenka was with his father or not. But,
strange to say, both the lawyers listened now with a sort of awful
reserve, looked coldly at him, asked few questions. Mitya could gather
nothing from their faces.

“They’re angry and offended,” he thought. “Well, bother them!”

When he described how he made up his mind at last to make the “signal”
to his father that Grushenka had come, so that he should open the
window, the lawyers paid no attention to the word “signal,” as though
they entirely failed to grasp the meaning of the word in this
connection: so much so, that Mitya noticed it. Coming at last to the
moment when, seeing his father peering out of the window, his hatred
flared up and he pulled the pestle out of his pocket, he suddenly, as
though of design, stopped short. He sat gazing at the wall and was
aware that their eyes were fixed upon him.

“Well?” said the investigating lawyer. “You pulled out the weapon and
... and what happened then?”

“Then? Why, then I murdered him ... hit him on the head and cracked his
skull.... I suppose that’s your story. That’s it!”

His eyes suddenly flashed. All his smothered wrath suddenly flamed up
with extraordinary violence in his soul.

“Our story?” repeated Nikolay Parfenovitch. “Well—and yours?”

Mitya dropped his eyes and was a long time silent.

“My story, gentlemen? Well, it was like this,” he began softly.
“Whether it was some one’s tears, or my mother prayed to God, or a good
angel kissed me at that instant, I don’t know. But the devil was
conquered. I rushed from the window and ran to the fence. My father was
alarmed and, for the first time, he saw me then, cried out, and sprang
back from the window. I remember that very well. I ran across the
garden to the fence ... and there Grigory caught me, when I was sitting
on the fence.”

At that point he raised his eyes at last and looked at his listeners.
They seemed to be staring at him with perfectly unruffled attention. A
sort of paroxysm of indignation seized on Mitya’s soul.

“Why, you’re laughing at me at this moment, gentlemen!” he broke off
suddenly.

“What makes you think that?” observed Nikolay Parfenovitch.

“You don’t believe one word—that’s why! I understand, of course, that I
have come to the vital point. The old man’s lying there now with his
skull broken, while I—after dramatically describing how I wanted to
kill him, and how I snatched up the pestle—I suddenly run away from the
window. A romance! Poetry! As though one could believe a fellow on his
word. Ha ha! You are scoffers, gentlemen!”

And he swung round on his chair so that it creaked.

“And did you notice,” asked the prosecutor suddenly, as though not
observing Mitya’s excitement, “did you notice when you ran away from
the window, whether the door into the garden was open?”

“No, it was not open.”

“It was not?”

“It was shut. And who could open it? Bah! the door. Wait a bit!” he
seemed suddenly to bethink himself, and almost with a start:

“Why, did you find the door open?”

“Yes, it was open.”

“Why, who could have opened it if you did not open it yourselves?”
cried Mitya, greatly astonished.

“The door stood open, and your father’s murderer undoubtedly went in at
that door, and, having accomplished the crime, went out again by the
same door,” the prosecutor pronounced deliberately, as though chiseling
out each word separately. “That is perfectly clear. The murder was
committed in the room and _not through the window_; that is absolutely
certain from the examination that has been made, from the position of
the body and everything. There can be no doubt of that circumstance.”

Mitya was absolutely dumbfounded.

“But that’s utterly impossible!” he cried, completely at a loss. “I ...
I didn’t go in.... I tell you positively, definitely, the door was shut
the whole time I was in the garden, and when I ran out of the garden. I
only stood at the window and saw him through the window. That’s all,
that’s all.... I remember to the last minute. And if I didn’t remember,
it would be just the same. I know it, for no one knew the signals
except Smerdyakov, and me, and the dead man. And he wouldn’t have
opened the door to any one in the world without the signals.”

“Signals? What signals?” asked the prosecutor, with greedy, almost
hysterical, curiosity. He instantly lost all trace of his reserve and
dignity. He asked the question with a sort of cringing timidity. He
scented an important fact of which he had known nothing, and was
already filled with dread that Mitya might be unwilling to disclose it.

“So you didn’t know!” Mitya winked at him with a malicious and mocking
smile. “What if I won’t tell you? From whom could you find out? No one
knew about the signals except my father, Smerdyakov, and me: that was
all. Heaven knew, too, but it won’t tell you. But it’s an interesting
fact. There’s no knowing what you might build on it. Ha ha! Take
comfort, gentlemen, I’ll reveal it. You’ve some foolish idea in your
hearts. You don’t know the man you have to deal with! You have to do
with a prisoner who gives evidence against himself, to his own damage!
Yes, for I’m a man of honor and you—are not.”

The prosecutor swallowed this without a murmur. He was trembling with
impatience to hear the new fact. Minutely and diffusely Mitya told them
everything about the signals invented by Fyodor Pavlovitch for
Smerdyakov. He told them exactly what every tap on the window meant,
tapped the signals on the table, and when Nikolay Parfenovitch said
that he supposed he, Mitya, had tapped the signal “Grushenka has come,”
when he tapped to his father, he answered precisely that he had tapped
that signal, that “Grushenka had come.”

“So now you can build up your tower,” Mitya broke off, and again turned
away from them contemptuously.

“So no one knew of the signals but your dead father, you, and the valet
Smerdyakov? And no one else?” Nikolay Parfenovitch inquired once more.

“Yes. The valet Smerdyakov, and Heaven. Write down about Heaven. That
may be of use. Besides, you will need God yourselves.”

And they had already, of course, begun writing it down. But while they
wrote, the prosecutor said suddenly, as though pitching on a new idea:

“But if Smerdyakov also knew of these signals and you absolutely deny
all responsibility for the death of your father, was it not he,
perhaps, who knocked the signal agreed upon, induced your father to
open to him, and then ... committed the crime?”

Mitya turned upon him a look of profound irony and intense hatred. His
silent stare lasted so long that it made the prosecutor blink.

“You’ve caught the fox again,” commented Mitya at last; “you’ve got the
beast by the tail. Ha ha! I see through you, Mr. Prosecutor. You
thought, of course, that I should jump at that, catch at your
prompting, and shout with all my might, ‘Aie! it’s Smerdyakov; he’s the
murderer.’ Confess that’s what you thought. Confess, and I’ll go on.”

But the prosecutor did not confess. He held his tongue and waited.

“You’re mistaken. I’m not going to shout ‘It’s Smerdyakov,’” said
Mitya.

“And you don’t even suspect him?”

“Why, do you suspect him?”

“He is suspected, too.”

Mitya fixed his eyes on the floor.

“Joking apart,” he brought out gloomily. “Listen. From the very
beginning, almost from the moment when I ran out to you from behind the
curtain, I’ve had the thought of Smerdyakov in my mind. I’ve been
sitting here, shouting that I’m innocent and thinking all the time
‘Smerdyakov!’ I can’t get Smerdyakov out of my head. In fact, I, too,
thought of Smerdyakov just now; but only for a second. Almost at once I
thought, ‘No, it’s not Smerdyakov.’ It’s not his doing, gentlemen.”

“In that case is there anybody else you suspect?” Nikolay Parfenovitch
inquired cautiously.

“I don’t know any one it could be, whether it’s the hand of Heaven or
Satan, but ... not Smerdyakov,” Mitya jerked out with decision.

“But what makes you affirm so confidently and emphatically that it’s
not he?”

“From my conviction—my impression. Because Smerdyakov is a man of the
most abject character and a coward. He’s not a coward, he’s the epitome
of all the cowardice in the world walking on two legs. He has the heart
of a chicken. When he talked to me, he was always trembling for fear I
should kill him, though I never raised my hand against him. He fell at
my feet and blubbered; he has kissed these very boots, literally,
beseeching me ‘not to frighten him.’ Do you hear? ‘Not to frighten
him.’ What a thing to say! Why, I offered him money. He’s a puling
chicken—sickly, epileptic, weak-minded—a child of eight could thrash
him. He has no character worth talking about. It’s not Smerdyakov,
gentlemen. He doesn’t care for money; he wouldn’t take my presents.
Besides, what motive had he for murdering the old man? Why, he’s very
likely his son, you know—his natural son. Do you know that?”

“We have heard that legend. But you are your father’s son, too, you
know; yet you yourself told every one you meant to murder him.”

“That’s a thrust! And a nasty, mean one, too! I’m not afraid! Oh,
gentlemen, isn’t it too base of you to say that to my face? It’s base,
because I told you that myself. I not only wanted to murder him, but I
might have done it. And, what’s more, I went out of my way to tell you
of my own accord that I nearly murdered him. But, you see, I didn’t
murder him; you see, my guardian angel saved me—that’s what you’ve not
taken into account. And that’s why it’s so base of you. For I didn’t
kill him, I didn’t kill him! Do you hear, I did not kill him.”

He was almost choking. He had not been so moved before during the whole
interrogation.

“And what has he told you, gentlemen—Smerdyakov, I mean?” he added
suddenly, after a pause. “May I ask that question?”

“You may ask any question,” the prosecutor replied with frigid
severity, “any question relating to the facts of the case, and we are,
I repeat, bound to answer every inquiry you make. We found the servant
Smerdyakov, concerning whom you inquire, lying unconscious in his bed,
in an epileptic fit of extreme severity, that had recurred, possibly,
ten times. The doctor who was with us told us, after seeing him, that
he may possibly not outlive the night.”

“Well, if that’s so, the devil must have killed him,” broke suddenly
from Mitya, as though until that moment he had been asking himself:
“Was it Smerdyakov or not?”

“We will come back to this later,” Nikolay Parfenovitch decided. “Now,
wouldn’t you like to continue your statement?”

Mitya asked for a rest. His request was courteously granted. After
resting, he went on with his story. But he was evidently depressed. He
was exhausted, mortified and morally shaken. To make things worse the
prosecutor exasperated him, as though intentionally, by vexatious
interruptions about “trifling points.” Scarcely had Mitya described
how, sitting on the wall, he had struck Grigory on the head with the
pestle, while the old man had hold of his left leg, and how he had then
jumped down to look at him, when the prosecutor stopped him to ask him
to describe exactly how he was sitting on the wall. Mitya was
surprised.

“Oh, I was sitting like this, astride, one leg on one side of the wall
and one on the other.”

“And the pestle?”

“The pestle was in my hand.”

“Not in your pocket? Do you remember that precisely? Was it a violent
blow you gave him?”

“It must have been a violent one. But why do you ask?”

“Would you mind sitting on the chair just as you sat on the wall then
and showing us just how you moved your arm, and in what direction?”

“You’re making fun of me, aren’t you?” asked Mitya, looking haughtily
at the speaker; but the latter did not flinch.

Mitya turned abruptly, sat astride on his chair, and swung his arm.

“This was how I struck him! That’s how I knocked him down! What more do
you want?”

“Thank you. May I trouble you now to explain why you jumped down, with
what object, and what you had in view?”

“Oh, hang it!... I jumped down to look at the man I’d hurt ... I don’t
know what for!”

“Though you were so excited and were running away?”

“Yes, though I was excited and running away.”

“You wanted to help him?”

“Help!... Yes, perhaps I did want to help him.... I don’t remember.”

“You don’t remember? Then you didn’t quite know what you were doing?”

“Not at all. I remember everything—every detail. I jumped down to look
at him, and wiped his face with my handkerchief.”

“We have seen your handkerchief. Did you hope to restore him to
consciousness?”

“I don’t know whether I hoped it. I simply wanted to make sure whether
he was alive or not.”

“Ah! You wanted to be sure? Well, what then?”

“I’m not a doctor. I couldn’t decide. I ran away thinking I’d killed
him. And now he’s recovered.”

“Excellent,” commented the prosecutor. “Thank you. That’s all I wanted.
Kindly proceed.”

Alas! it never entered Mitya’s head to tell them, though he remembered
it, that he had jumped back from pity, and standing over the prostrate
figure had even uttered some words of regret: “You’ve come to grief,
old man—there’s no help for it. Well, there you must lie.”

The prosecutor could only draw one conclusion: that the man had jumped
back “at such a moment and in such excitement simply with the object of
ascertaining whether the _only_ witness of his crime were dead; that he
must therefore have been a man of great strength, coolness, decision
and foresight even at such a moment,” ... and so on. The prosecutor was
satisfied: “I’ve provoked the nervous fellow by ‘trifles’ and he has
said more than he meant to.”

With painful effort Mitya went on. But this time he was pulled up
immediately by Nikolay Parfenovitch.

“How came you to run to the servant, Fedosya Markovna, with your hands
so covered with blood, and, as it appears, your face, too?”

“Why, I didn’t notice the blood at all at the time,” answered Mitya.

“That’s quite likely. It does happen sometimes.” The prosecutor
exchanged glances with Nikolay Parfenovitch.

“I simply didn’t notice. You’re quite right there, prosecutor,” Mitya
assented suddenly.

Next came the account of Mitya’s sudden determination to “step aside”
and make way for their happiness. But he could not make up his mind to
open his heart to them as before, and tell them about “the queen of his
soul.” He disliked speaking of her before these chilly persons “who
were fastening on him like bugs.” And so in response to their
reiterated questions he answered briefly and abruptly:

“Well, I made up my mind to kill myself. What had I left to live for?
That question stared me in the face. Her first rightful lover had come
back, the man who wronged her but who’d hurried back to offer his love,
after five years, and atone for the wrong with marriage.... So I knew
it was all over for me.... And behind me disgrace, and that
blood—Grigory’s.... What had I to live for? So I went to redeem the
pistols I had pledged, to load them and put a bullet in my brain
to-morrow.”

“And a grand feast the night before?”

“Yes, a grand feast the night before. Damn it all, gentlemen! Do make
haste and finish it. I meant to shoot myself not far from here, beyond
the village, and I’d planned to do it at five o’clock in the morning.
And I had a note in my pocket already. I wrote it at Perhotin’s when I
loaded my pistols. Here’s the letter. Read it! It’s not for you I tell
it,” he added contemptuously. He took it from his waistcoat pocket and
flung it on the table. The lawyers read it with curiosity, and, as is
usual, added it to the papers connected with the case.

“And you didn’t even think of washing your hands at Perhotin’s? You
were not afraid then of arousing suspicion?”

“What suspicion? Suspicion or not, I should have galloped here just the
same, and shot myself at five o’clock, and you wouldn’t have been in
time to do anything. If it hadn’t been for what’s happened to my
father, you would have known nothing about it, and wouldn’t have come
here. Oh, it’s the devil’s doing. It was the devil murdered father, it
was through the devil that you found it out so soon. How did you manage
to get here so quick? It’s marvelous, a dream!”

“Mr. Perhotin informed us that when you came to him, you held in your
hands ... your blood-stained hands ... your money ... a lot of money
... a bundle of hundred-rouble notes, and that his servant-boy saw it
too.”

“That’s true, gentlemen. I remember it was so.”

“Now, there’s one little point presents itself. Can you inform us,”
Nikolay Parfenovitch began, with extreme gentleness, “where did you get
so much money all of a sudden, when it appears from the facts, from the
reckoning of time, that you had not been home?”

The prosecutor’s brows contracted at the question being asked so
plainly, but he did not interrupt Nikolay Parfenovitch.

“No, I didn’t go home,” answered Mitya, apparently perfectly composed,
but looking at the floor.

“Allow me then to repeat my question,” Nikolay Parfenovitch went on as
though creeping up to the subject. “Where were you able to procure such
a sum all at once, when by your own confession, at five o’clock the
same day you—”

“I was in want of ten roubles and pledged my pistols with Perhotin, and
then went to Madame Hohlakov to borrow three thousand which she
wouldn’t give me, and so on, and all the rest of it,” Mitya interrupted
sharply. “Yes, gentlemen, I was in want of it, and suddenly thousands
turned up, eh? Do you know, gentlemen, you’re both afraid now ‘what if
he won’t tell us where he got it?’ That’s just how it is. I’m not going
to tell you, gentlemen. You’ve guessed right. You’ll never know,” said
Mitya, chipping out each word with extraordinary determination. The
lawyers were silent for a moment.

“You must understand, Mr. Karamazov, that it is of vital importance for
us to know,” said Nikolay Parfenovitch, softly and suavely.

“I understand; but still I won’t tell you.”

The prosecutor, too, intervened, and again reminded the prisoner that
he was at liberty to refuse to answer questions, if he thought it to
his interest, and so on. But in view of the damage he might do himself
by his silence, especially in a case of such importance as—

“And so on, gentlemen, and so on. Enough! I’ve heard that rigmarole
before,” Mitya interrupted again. “I can see for myself how important
it is, and that this is the vital point, and still I won’t say.”

“What is it to us? It’s not our business, but yours. You are doing
yourself harm,” observed Nikolay Parfenovitch nervously.

“You see, gentlemen, joking apart”—Mitya lifted his eyes and looked
firmly at them both—“I had an inkling from the first that we should
come to loggerheads at this point. But at first when I began to give my
evidence, it was all still far away and misty; it was all floating, and
I was so simple that I began with the supposition of mutual confidence
existing between us. Now I can see for myself that such confidence is
out of the question, for in any case we were bound to come to this
cursed stumbling-block. And now we’ve come to it! It’s impossible and
there’s an end of it! But I don’t blame you. You can’t believe it all
simply on my word. I understand that, of course.”

He relapsed into gloomy silence.

“Couldn’t you, without abandoning your resolution to be silent about
the chief point, could you not, at the same time, give us some slight
hint as to the nature of the motives which are strong enough to induce
you to refuse to answer, at a crisis so full of danger to you?”

Mitya smiled mournfully, almost dreamily.

“I’m much more good-natured than you think, gentlemen. I’ll tell you
the reason why and give you that hint, though you don’t deserve it. I
won’t speak of that, gentlemen, because it would be a stain on my
honor. The answer to the question where I got the money would expose me
to far greater disgrace than the murder and robbing of my father, if I
had murdered and robbed him. That’s why I can’t tell you. I can’t for
fear of disgrace. What, gentlemen, are you going to write that down?”

“Yes, we’ll write it down,” lisped Nikolay Parfenovitch.

“You ought not to write that down about ‘disgrace.’ I only told you
that in the goodness of my heart. I needn’t have told you. I made you a
present of it, so to speak, and you pounce upon it at once. Oh, well,
write—write what you like,” he concluded, with scornful disgust. “I’m
not afraid of you and I can still hold up my head before you.”

“And can’t you tell us the nature of that disgrace?” Nikolay
Parfenovitch hazarded.

The prosecutor frowned darkly.

“No, no, _c’est fini_, don’t trouble yourselves. It’s not worth while
soiling one’s hands. I have soiled myself enough through you as it is.
You’re not worth it—no one is ... Enough, gentlemen. I’m not going on.”

This was said too peremptorily. Nikolay Parfenovitch did not insist
further, but from Ippolit Kirillovitch’s eyes he saw that he had not
given up hope.

“Can you not, at least, tell us what sum you had in your hands when you
went into Mr. Perhotin’s—how many roubles exactly?”

“I can’t tell you that.”

“You spoke to Mr. Perhotin, I believe, of having received three
thousand from Madame Hohlakov.”

“Perhaps I did. Enough, gentlemen. I won’t say how much I had.”

“Will you be so good then as to tell us how you came here and what you
have done since you arrived?”

“Oh! you might ask the people here about that. But I’ll tell you if you
like.”

He proceeded to do so, but we won’t repeat his story. He told it dryly
and curtly. Of the raptures of his love he said nothing, but told them
that he abandoned his determination to shoot himself, owing to “new
factors in the case.” He told the story without going into motives or
details. And this time the lawyers did not worry him much. It was
obvious that there was no essential point of interest to them here.

“We shall verify all that. We will come back to it during the
examination of the witnesses, which will, of course, take place in your
presence,” said Nikolay Parfenovitch in conclusion. “And now allow me
to request you to lay on the table everything in your possession,
especially all the money you still have about you.”

“My money, gentlemen? Certainly. I understand that that is necessary.
I’m surprised, indeed, that you haven’t inquired about it before. It’s
true I couldn’t get away anywhere. I’m sitting here where I can be
seen. But here’s my money—count it—take it. That’s all, I think.”

He turned it all out of his pockets; even the small change—two pieces
of twenty copecks—he pulled out of his waistcoat pocket. They counted
the money, which amounted to eight hundred and thirty-six roubles, and
forty copecks.

“And is that all?” asked the investigating lawyer.

“Yes.”

“You stated just now in your evidence that you spent three hundred
roubles at Plotnikovs’. You gave Perhotin ten, your driver twenty, here
you lost two hundred, then....”

Nikolay Parfenovitch reckoned it all up. Mitya helped him readily. They
recollected every farthing and included it in the reckoning. Nikolay
Parfenovitch hurriedly added up the total.

“With this eight hundred you must have had about fifteen hundred at
first?”

“I suppose so,” snapped Mitya.

“How is it they all assert there was much more?”

“Let them assert it.”

“But you asserted it yourself.”

“Yes, I did, too.”

“We will compare all this with the evidence of other persons not yet
examined. Don’t be anxious about your money. It will be properly taken
care of and be at your disposal at the conclusion of ... what is
beginning ... if it appears, or, so to speak, is proved that you have
undisputed right to it. Well, and now....”

Nikolay Parfenovitch suddenly got up, and informed Mitya firmly that it
was his duty and obligation to conduct a minute and thorough search “of
your clothes and everything else....”

“By all means, gentlemen. I’ll turn out all my pockets, if you like.”

And he did, in fact, begin turning out his pockets.

“It will be necessary to take off your clothes, too.”

“What! Undress? Ugh! Damn it! Won’t you search me as I am! Can’t you?”

“It’s utterly impossible, Dmitri Fyodorovitch. You must take off your
clothes.”

“As you like,” Mitya submitted gloomily; “only, please, not here, but
behind the curtains. Who will search them?”

“Behind the curtains, of course.”

Nikolay Parfenovitch bent his head in assent. His small face wore an
expression of peculiar solemnity.




Chapter VI.
The Prosecutor Catches Mitya


Something utterly unexpected and amazing to Mitya followed. He could
never, even a minute before, have conceived that any one could behave
like that to him, Mitya Karamazov. What was worst of all, there was
something humiliating in it, and on their side something “supercilious
and scornful.” It was nothing to take off his coat, but he was asked to
undress further, or rather not asked but “commanded,” he quite
understood that. From pride and contempt he submitted without a word.
Several peasants accompanied the lawyers and remained on the same side
of the curtain. “To be ready if force is required,” thought Mitya, “and
perhaps for some other reason, too.”

“Well, must I take off my shirt, too?” he asked sharply, but Nikolay
Parfenovitch did not answer. He was busily engaged with the prosecutor
in examining the coat, the trousers, the waistcoat and the cap; and it
was evident that they were both much interested in the scrutiny. “They
make no bones about it,” thought Mitya, “they don’t keep up the most
elementary politeness.”

“I ask you for the second time—need I take off my shirt or not?” he
said, still more sharply and irritably.

“Don’t trouble yourself. We will tell you what to do,” Nikolay
Parfenovitch said, and his voice was positively peremptory, or so it
seemed to Mitya.

Meantime a consultation was going on in undertones between the lawyers.
There turned out to be on the coat, especially on the left side at the
back, a huge patch of blood, dry, and still stiff. There were
bloodstains on the trousers, too. Nikolay Parfenovitch, moreover, in
the presence of the peasant witnesses, passed his fingers along the
collar, the cuffs, and all the seams of the coat and trousers,
obviously looking for something—money, of course. He didn’t even hide
from Mitya his suspicion that he was capable of sewing money up in his
clothes.

“He treats me not as an officer but as a thief,” Mitya muttered to
himself. They communicated their ideas to one another with amazing
frankness. The secretary, for instance, who was also behind the
curtain, fussing about and listening, called Nikolay Parfenovitch’s
attention to the cap, which they were also fingering.

“You remember Gridyenko, the copying-clerk,” observed the secretary.
“Last summer he received the wages of the whole office, and pretended
to have lost the money when he was drunk. And where was it found? Why,
in just such pipings in his cap. The hundred-rouble notes were screwed
up in little rolls and sewed in the piping.”

Both the lawyers remembered Gridyenko’s case perfectly, and so laid
aside Mitya’s cap, and decided that all his clothes must be more
thoroughly examined later.

“Excuse me,” cried Nikolay Parfenovitch, suddenly, noticing that the
right cuff of Mitya’s shirt was turned in, and covered with blood,
“excuse me, what’s that, blood?”

“Yes,” Mitya jerked out.

“That is, what blood? ... and why is the cuff turned in?”

Mitya told him how he had got the sleeve stained with blood looking
after Grigory, and had turned it inside when he was washing his hands
at Perhotin’s.

“You must take off your shirt, too. That’s very important as material
evidence.”

Mitya flushed red and flew into a rage.

“What, am I to stay naked?” he shouted.

“Don’t disturb yourself. We will arrange something. And meanwhile take
off your socks.”

“You’re not joking? Is that really necessary?” Mitya’s eyes flashed.

“We are in no mood for joking,” answered Nikolay Parfenovitch sternly.

“Well, if I must—” muttered Mitya, and sitting down on the bed, he took
off his socks. He felt unbearably awkward. All were clothed, while he
was naked, and strange to say, when he was undressed he felt somehow
guilty in their presence, and was almost ready to believe himself that
he was inferior to them, and that now they had a perfect right to
despise him.

“When all are undressed, one is somehow not ashamed, but when one’s the
only one undressed and everybody is looking, it’s degrading,” he kept
repeating to himself, again and again. “It’s like a dream, I’ve
sometimes dreamed of being in such degrading positions.” It was a
misery to him to take off his socks. They were very dirty, and so were
his underclothes, and now every one could see it. And what was worse,
he disliked his feet. All his life he had thought both his big toes
hideous. He particularly loathed the coarse, flat, crooked nail on the
right one, and now they would all see it. Feeling intolerably ashamed
made him, at once and intentionally, rougher. He pulled off his shirt,
himself.

“Would you like to look anywhere else if you’re not ashamed to?”

“No, there’s no need to, at present.”

“Well, am I to stay naked like this?” he added savagely.

“Yes, that can’t be helped for the time.... Kindly sit down here for a
while. You can wrap yourself in a quilt from the bed, and I ... I’ll
see to all this.”

All the things were shown to the witnesses. The report of the search
was drawn up, and at last Nikolay Parfenovitch went out, and the
clothes were carried out after him. Ippolit Kirillovitch went out, too.
Mitya was left alone with the peasants, who stood in silence, never
taking their eyes off him. Mitya wrapped himself up in the quilt. He
felt cold. His bare feet stuck out, and he couldn’t pull the quilt over
so as to cover them. Nikolay Parfenovitch seemed to be gone a long
time, “an insufferable time.” “He thinks of me as a puppy,” thought
Mitya, gnashing his teeth. “That rotten prosecutor has gone, too,
contemptuous no doubt, it disgusts him to see me naked!”

Mitya imagined, however, that his clothes would be examined and
returned to him. But what was his indignation when Nikolay Parfenovitch
came back with quite different clothes, brought in behind him by a
peasant.

“Here are clothes for you,” he observed airily, seeming well satisfied
with the success of his mission. “Mr. Kalganov has kindly provided
these for this unusual emergency, as well as a clean shirt. Luckily he
had them all in his trunk. You can keep your own socks and
underclothes.”

Mitya flew into a passion.

“I won’t have other people’s clothes!” he shouted menacingly, “give me
my own!”

“It’s impossible!”

“Give me my own. Damn Kalganov and his clothes, too!”

It was a long time before they could persuade him. But they succeeded
somehow in quieting him down. They impressed upon him that his clothes,
being stained with blood, must be “included with the other material
evidence,” and that they “had not even the right to let him have them
now ... taking into consideration the possible outcome of the case.”
Mitya at last understood this. He subsided into gloomy silence and
hurriedly dressed himself. He merely observed, as he put them on, that
the clothes were much better than his old ones, and that he disliked
“gaining by the change.” The coat was, besides, “ridiculously tight. Am
I to be dressed up like a fool ... for your amusement?”

They urged upon him again that he was exaggerating, that Kalganov was
only a little taller, so that only the trousers might be a little too
long. But the coat turned out to be really tight in the shoulders.

“Damn it all! I can hardly button it,” Mitya grumbled. “Be so good as
to tell Mr. Kalganov from me that I didn’t ask for his clothes, and
it’s not my doing that they’ve dressed me up like a clown.”

“He understands that, and is sorry ... I mean, not sorry to lend you
his clothes, but sorry about all this business,” mumbled Nikolay
Parfenovitch.

“Confound his sorrow! Well, where now? Am I to go on sitting here?”

He was asked to go back to the “other room.” Mitya went in, scowling
with anger, and trying to avoid looking at any one. Dressed in another
man’s clothes he felt himself disgraced, even in the eyes of the
peasants, and of Trifon Borissovitch, whose face appeared, for some
reason, in the doorway, and vanished immediately. “He’s come to look at
me dressed up,” thought Mitya. He sat down on the same chair as before.
He had an absurd nightmarish feeling, as though he were out of his
mind.

“Well, what now? Are you going to flog me? That’s all that’s left for
you,” he said, clenching his teeth and addressing the prosecutor. He
would not turn to Nikolay Parfenovitch, as though he disdained to speak
to him.

“He looked too closely at my socks, and turned them inside out on
purpose to show every one how dirty they were—the scoundrel!”

“Well, now we must proceed to the examination of witnesses,” observed
Nikolay Parfenovitch, as though in reply to Mitya’s question.

“Yes,” said the prosecutor thoughtfully, as though reflecting on
something.

“We’ve done what we could in your interest, Dmitri Fyodorovitch,”
Nikolay Parfenovitch went on, “but having received from you such an
uncompromising refusal to explain to us the source from which you
obtained the money found upon you, we are, at the present moment—”

“What is the stone in your ring?” Mitya interrupted suddenly, as though
awakening from a reverie. He pointed to one of the three large rings
adorning Nikolay Parfenovitch’s right hand.

“Ring?” repeated Nikolay Parfenovitch with surprise.

“Yes, that one ... on your middle finger, with the little veins in it,
what stone is that?” Mitya persisted, like a peevish child.

“That’s a smoky topaz,” said Nikolay Parfenovitch, smiling. “Would you
like to look at it? I’ll take it off ...”

“No, don’t take it off,” cried Mitya furiously, suddenly waking up, and
angry with himself. “Don’t take it off ... there’s no need.... Damn
it!... Gentlemen, you’ve sullied my heart! Can you suppose that I would
conceal it from you, if I had really killed my father, that I would
shuffle, lie, and hide myself? No, that’s not like Dmitri Karamazov,
that he couldn’t do, and if I were guilty, I swear I shouldn’t have
waited for your coming, or for the sunrise as I meant at first, but
should have killed myself before this, without waiting for the dawn! I
know that about myself now. I couldn’t have learnt so much in twenty
years as I’ve found out in this accursed night!... And should I have
been like this on this night, and at this moment, sitting with you,
could I have talked like this, could I have moved like this, could I
have looked at you and at the world like this, if I had really been the
murderer of my father, when the very thought of having accidentally
killed Grigory gave me no peace all night—not from fear—oh, not simply
from fear of your punishment! The disgrace of it! And you expect me to
be open with such scoffers as you, who see nothing and believe in
nothing, blind moles and scoffers, and to tell you another nasty thing
I’ve done, another disgrace, even if that would save me from your
accusation! No, better Siberia! The man who opened the door to my
father and went in at that door, he killed him, he robbed him. Who was
he? I’m racking my brains and can’t think who. But I can tell you it
was not Dmitri Karamazov, and that’s all I can tell you, and that’s
enough, enough, leave me alone.... Exile me, punish me, but don’t
bother me any more. I’ll say no more. Call your witnesses!”

Mitya uttered his sudden monologue as though he were determined to be
absolutely silent for the future. The prosecutor watched him the whole
time and only when he had ceased speaking, observed, as though it were
the most ordinary thing, with the most frigid and composed air:

“Oh, about the open door of which you spoke just now, we may as well
inform you, by the way, now, of a very interesting piece of evidence of
the greatest importance both to you and to us, that has been given us
by Grigory, the old man you wounded. On his recovery, he clearly and
emphatically stated, in reply to our questions, that when, on coming
out to the steps, and hearing a noise in the garden, he made up his
mind to go into it through the little gate which stood open, before he
noticed you running, as you have told us already, in the dark from the
open window where you saw your father, he, Grigory, glanced to the
left, and, while noticing the open window, observed at the same time,
much nearer to him, the door, standing wide open—that door which you
have stated to have been shut the whole time you were in the garden. I
will not conceal from you that Grigory himself confidently affirms and
bears witness that you must have run from that door, though, of course,
he did not see you do so with his own eyes, since he only noticed you
first some distance away in the garden, running towards the fence.”

Mitya had leapt up from his chair half-way through this speech.

“Nonsense!” he yelled, in a sudden frenzy, “it’s a barefaced lie. He
couldn’t have seen the door open because it was shut. He’s lying!”

“I consider it my duty to repeat that he is firm in his statement. He
does not waver. He adheres to it. We’ve cross-examined him several
times.”

“Precisely. I have cross-examined him several times,” Nikolay
Parfenovitch confirmed warmly.

“It’s false, false! It’s either an attempt to slander me, or the
hallucination of a madman,” Mitya still shouted. “He’s simply raving,
from loss of blood, from the wound. He must have fancied it when he
came to.... He’s raving.”

“Yes, but he noticed the open door, not when he came to after his
injuries, but before that, as soon as he went into the garden from the
lodge.”

“But it’s false, it’s false! It can’t be so! He’s slandering me from
spite.... He couldn’t have seen it ... I didn’t come from the door,”
gasped Mitya.

The prosecutor turned to Nikolay Parfenovitch and said to him
impressively:

“Confront him with it.”

“Do you recognize this object?”

Nikolay Parfenovitch laid upon the table a large and thick official
envelope, on which three seals still remained intact. The envelope was
empty, and slit open at one end. Mitya stared at it with open eyes.

“It ... it must be that envelope of my father’s, the envelope that
contained the three thousand roubles ... and if there’s inscribed on
it, allow me, ‘For my little chicken’ ... yes—three thousand!” he
shouted, “do you see, three thousand, do you see?”

“Of course, we see. But we didn’t find the money in it. It was empty,
and lying on the floor by the bed, behind the screen.”

For some seconds Mitya stood as though thunderstruck.

“Gentlemen, it’s Smerdyakov!” he shouted suddenly, at the top of his
voice. “It’s he who’s murdered him! He’s robbed him! No one else knew
where the old man hid the envelope. It’s Smerdyakov, that’s clear,
now!”

“But you, too, knew of the envelope and that it was under the pillow.”

“I never knew it. I’ve never seen it. This is the first time I’ve
looked at it. I’d only heard of it from Smerdyakov.... He was the only
one who knew where the old man kept it hidden, I didn’t know ...” Mitya
was completely breathless.

“But you told us yourself that the envelope was under your deceased
father’s pillow. You especially stated that it was under the pillow, so
you must have known it.”

“We’ve got it written down,” confirmed Nikolay Parfenovitch.

“Nonsense! It’s absurd! I’d no idea it was under the pillow. And
perhaps it wasn’t under the pillow at all.... It was just a chance
guess that it was under the pillow. What does Smerdyakov say? Have you
asked him where it was? What does Smerdyakov say? that’s the chief
point.... And I went out of my way to tell lies against myself.... I
told you without thinking that it was under the pillow, and now you—
Oh, you know how one says the wrong thing, without meaning it. No one
knew but Smerdyakov, only Smerdyakov, and no one else.... He didn’t
even tell me where it was! But it’s his doing, his doing; there’s no
doubt about it, he murdered him, that’s as clear as daylight now,”
Mitya exclaimed more and more frantically, repeating himself
incoherently, and growing more and more exasperated and excited. “You
must understand that, and arrest him at once.... He must have killed
him while I was running away and while Grigory was unconscious, that’s
clear now.... He gave the signal and father opened to him ... for no
one but he knew the signal, and without the signal father would never
have opened the door....”

“But you’re again forgetting the circumstance,” the prosecutor
observed, still speaking with the same restraint, though with a note of
triumph, “that there was no need to give the signal if the door already
stood open when you were there, while you were in the garden....”

“The door, the door,” muttered Mitya, and he stared speechless at the
prosecutor. He sank back helpless in his chair. All were silent.

“Yes, the door!... It’s a nightmare! God is against me!” he exclaimed,
staring before him in complete stupefaction.

“Come, you see,” the prosecutor went on with dignity, “and you can
judge for yourself, Dmitri Fyodorovitch. On the one hand we have the
evidence of the open door from which you ran out, a fact which
overwhelms you and us. On the other side your incomprehensible,
persistent, and, so to speak, obdurate silence with regard to the
source from which you obtained the money which was so suddenly seen in
your hands, when only three hours earlier, on your own showing, you
pledged your pistols for the sake of ten roubles! In view of all these
facts, judge for yourself. What are we to believe, and what can we
depend upon? And don’t accuse us of being ‘frigid, cynical, scoffing
people,’ who are incapable of believing in the generous impulses of
your heart.... Try to enter into our position ...”

Mitya was indescribably agitated. He turned pale.

“Very well!” he exclaimed suddenly. “I will tell you my secret. I’ll
tell you where I got the money!... I’ll reveal my shame, that I may not
have to blame myself or you hereafter.”

“And believe me, Dmitri Fyodorovitch,” put in Nikolay Parfenovitch, in
a voice of almost pathetic delight, “that every sincere and complete
confession on your part at this moment may, later on, have an immense
influence in your favor, and may, indeed, moreover—”

But the prosecutor gave him a slight shove under the table, and he
checked himself in time. Mitya, it is true, had not heard him.




Chapter VII.
Mitya’s Great Secret. Received With Hisses


“Gentlemen,” he began, still in the same agitation, “I want to make a
full confession: that money was _my own_.” The lawyers’ faces
lengthened. That was not at all what they expected.

“How do you mean?” faltered Nikolay Parfenovitch, “when at five o’clock
on the same day, from your own confession—”

“Damn five o’clock on the same day and my own confession! That’s
nothing to do with it now! That money was my own, my own, that is,
stolen by me ... not mine, I mean, but stolen by me, and it was fifteen
hundred roubles, and I had it on me all the time, all the time ...”

“But where did you get it?”

“I took it off my neck, gentlemen, off this very neck ... it was here,
round my neck, sewn up in a rag, and I’d had it round my neck a long
time, it’s a month since I put it round my neck ... to my shame and
disgrace!”

“And from whom did you ... appropriate it?”

“You mean, ‘steal it’? Speak out plainly now. Yes, I consider that I
practically stole it, but, if you prefer, I ‘appropriated it.’ I
consider I stole it. And last night I stole it finally.”

“Last night? But you said that it’s a month since you ... obtained
it?...”

“Yes. But not from my father. Not from my father, don’t be uneasy. I
didn’t steal it from my father, but from her. Let me tell you without
interrupting. It’s hard to do, you know. You see, a month ago, I was
sent for by Katerina Ivanovna, formerly my betrothed. Do you know her?”

“Yes, of course.”

“I know you know her. She’s a noble creature, noblest of the noble. But
she has hated me ever so long, oh, ever so long ... and hated me with
good reason, good reason!”

“Katerina Ivanovna!” Nikolay Parfenovitch exclaimed with wonder. The
prosecutor, too, stared.

“Oh, don’t take her name in vain! I’m a scoundrel to bring her into it.
Yes, I’ve seen that she hated me ... a long while.... From the very
first, even that evening at my lodging ... but enough, enough. You’re
unworthy even to know of that. No need of that at all.... I need only
tell you that she sent for me a month ago, gave me three thousand
roubles to send off to her sister and another relation in Moscow (as
though she couldn’t have sent it off herself!) and I ... it was just at
that fatal moment in my life when I ... well, in fact, when I’d just
come to love another, her, she’s sitting down below now, Grushenka. I
carried her off here to Mokroe then, and wasted here in two days half
that damned three thousand, but the other half I kept on me. Well, I’ve
kept that other half, that fifteen hundred, like a locket round my
neck, but yesterday I undid it, and spent it. What’s left of it, eight
hundred roubles, is in your hands now, Nikolay Parfenovitch. That’s the
change out of the fifteen hundred I had yesterday.”

“Excuse me. How’s that? Why, when you were here a month ago you spent
three thousand, not fifteen hundred, everybody knows that.”

“Who knows it? Who counted the money? Did I let any one count it?”

“Why, you told every one yourself that you’d spent exactly three
thousand.”

“It’s true, I did. I told the whole town so, and the whole town said
so. And here, at Mokroe, too, every one reckoned it was three thousand.
Yet I didn’t spend three thousand, but fifteen hundred. And the other
fifteen hundred I sewed into a little bag. That’s how it was,
gentlemen. That’s where I got that money yesterday....”

“This is almost miraculous,” murmured Nikolay Parfenovitch.

“Allow me to inquire,” observed the prosecutor at last, “have you
informed any one whatever of this circumstance before, I mean that you
had fifteen hundred left about you a month ago?”

“I told no one.”

“That’s strange. Do you mean absolutely no one?”

“Absolutely no one. No one and nobody.”

“What was your reason for this reticence? What was your motive for
making such a secret of it? To be more precise: You have told us at
last your secret, in your words, so ‘disgraceful,’ though in
reality—that is, of course, comparatively speaking—this action, that
is, the appropriation of three thousand roubles belonging to some one
else, and, of course, only for a time is, in my view at least, only an
act of the greatest recklessness and not so disgraceful, when one takes
into consideration your character.... Even admitting that it was an
action in the highest degree discreditable, still, discreditable is not
‘disgraceful.’... Many people have already guessed, during this last
month, about the three thousand of Katerina Ivanovna’s, that you have
spent, and I heard the legend myself, apart from your confession....
Mihail Makarovitch, for instance, had heard it, too, so that indeed, it
was scarcely a legend, but the gossip of the whole town. There are
indications, too, if I am not mistaken, that you confessed this
yourself to some one, I mean that the money was Katerina Ivanovna’s,
and so, it’s extremely surprising to me that hitherto, that is, up to
the present moment, you have made such an extraordinary secret of the
fifteen hundred you say you put by, apparently connecting a feeling of
positive horror with that secret.... It’s not easy to believe that it
could cost you such distress to confess such a secret.... You cried
out, just now, that Siberia would be better than confessing it ...”

The prosecutor ceased speaking. He was provoked. He did not conceal his
vexation, which was almost anger, and gave vent to all his accumulated
spleen, disconnectedly and incoherently, without choosing words.

“It’s not the fifteen hundred that’s the disgrace, but that I put it
apart from the rest of the three thousand,” said Mitya firmly.

“Why?” smiled the prosecutor irritably. “What is there disgraceful, to
your thinking, in your having set aside half of the three thousand you
had discreditably, if you prefer, ‘disgracefully,’ appropriated? Your
taking the three thousand is more important than what you did with it.
And by the way, why did you do that—why did you set apart that half,
for what purpose, for what object did you do it? Can you explain that
to us?”

“Oh, gentlemen, the purpose is the whole point!” cried Mitya. “I put it
aside because I was vile, that is, because I was calculating, and to be
calculating in such a case is vile ... and that vileness has been going
on a whole month.”

“It’s incomprehensible.”

“I wonder at you. But I’ll make it clearer. Perhaps it really is
incomprehensible. You see, attend to what I say. I appropriate three
thousand entrusted to my honor, I spend it on a spree, say I spend it
all, and next morning I go to her and say, ‘Katya, I’ve done wrong,
I’ve squandered your three thousand,’ well, is that right? No, it’s not
right—it’s dishonest and cowardly, I’m a beast, with no more
self-control than a beast, that’s so, isn’t it? But still I’m not a
thief? Not a downright thief, you’ll admit! I squandered it, but I
didn’t steal it. Now a second, rather more favorable alternative:
follow me carefully, or I may get confused again—my head’s going
round—and so, for the second alternative: I spend here only fifteen
hundred out of the three thousand, that is, only half. Next day I go
and take that half to her: ‘Katya, take this fifteen hundred from me,
I’m a low beast, and an untrustworthy scoundrel, for I’ve wasted half
the money, and I shall waste this, too, so keep me from temptation!’
Well, what of that alternative? I should be a beast and a scoundrel,
and whatever you like; but not a thief, not altogether a thief, or I
should not have brought back what was left, but have kept that, too.
She would see at once that since I brought back half, I should pay back
what I’d spent, that I should never give up trying to, that I should
work to get it and pay it back. So in that case I should be a
scoundrel, but not a thief, you may say what you like, not a thief!”

“I admit that there is a certain distinction,” said the prosecutor,
with a cold smile. “But it’s strange that you see such a vital
difference.”

“Yes, I see a vital difference! Every man may be a scoundrel, and
perhaps every man is a scoundrel, but not every one can be a thief, it
takes an arch-scoundrel to be that. Oh, of course, I don’t know how to
make these fine distinctions ... but a thief is lower than a scoundrel,
that’s my conviction. Listen, I carry the money about me a whole month,
I may make up my mind to give it back to-morrow, and I’m a scoundrel no
longer, but I cannot make up my mind, you see, though I’m making up my
mind every day, and every day spurring myself on to do it, and yet for
a whole month I can’t bring myself to it, you see. Is that right to
your thinking, is that right?”

“Certainly, that’s not right, that I can quite understand, and that I
don’t dispute,” answered the prosecutor with reserve. “And let us give
up all discussion of these subtleties and distinctions, and, if you
will be so kind, get back to the point. And the point is, that you have
still not told us, altogether we’ve asked you, why, in the first place,
you halved the money, squandering one half and hiding the other? For
what purpose exactly did you hide it, what did you mean to do with that
fifteen hundred? I insist upon that question, Dmitri Fyodorovitch.”

“Yes, of course!” cried Mitya, striking himself on the forehead;
“forgive me, I’m worrying you, and am not explaining the chief point,
or you’d understand in a minute, for it’s just the motive of it that’s
the disgrace! You see, it was all to do with the old man, my dead
father. He was always pestering Agrafena Alexandrovna, and I was
jealous; I thought then that she was hesitating between me and him. So
I kept thinking every day, suppose she were to make up her mind all of
a sudden, suppose she were to leave off tormenting me, and were
suddenly to say to me, ‘I love you, not him; take me to the other end
of the world.’ And I’d only forty copecks; how could I take her away,
what could I do? Why, I’d be lost. You see, I didn’t know her then, I
didn’t understand her, I thought she wanted money, and that she
wouldn’t forgive my poverty. And so I fiendishly counted out the half
of that three thousand, sewed it up, calculating on it, sewed it up
before I was drunk, and after I had sewn it up, I went off to get drunk
on the rest. Yes, that was base. Do you understand now?”

Both the lawyers laughed aloud.

“I should have called it sensible and moral on your part not to have
squandered it all,” chuckled Nikolay Parfenovitch, “for after all what
does it amount to?”

“Why, that I stole it, that’s what it amounts to! Oh, God, you horrify
me by not understanding! Every day that I had that fifteen hundred sewn
up round my neck, every day and every hour I said to myself, ‘You’re a
thief! you’re a thief!’ Yes, that’s why I’ve been so savage all this
month, that’s why I fought in the tavern, that’s why I attacked my
father, it was because I felt I was a thief. I couldn’t make up my
mind, I didn’t dare even to tell Alyosha, my brother, about that
fifteen hundred: I felt I was such a scoundrel and such a pickpocket.
But, do you know, while I carried it I said to myself at the same time
every hour: ‘No, Dmitri Fyodorovitch, you may yet not be a thief.’ Why?
Because I might go next day and pay back that fifteen hundred to Katya.
And only yesterday I made up my mind to tear my amulet off my neck, on
my way from Fenya’s to Perhotin. I hadn’t been able till that moment to
bring myself to it. And it was only when I tore it off that I became a
downright thief, a thief and a dishonest man for the rest of my life.
Why? Because, with that I destroyed, too, my dream of going to Katya
and saying, ‘I’m a scoundrel, but not a thief!’ Do you understand now?
Do you understand?”

“What was it made you decide to do it yesterday?” Nikolay Parfenovitch
interrupted.

“Why? It’s absurd to ask. Because I had condemned myself to die at five
o’clock this morning, here, at dawn. I thought it made no difference
whether I died a thief or a man of honor. But I see it’s not so, it
turns out that it does make a difference. Believe me, gentlemen, what
has tortured me most during this night has not been the thought that
I’d killed the old servant, and that I was in danger of Siberia just
when my love was being rewarded, and Heaven was open to me again. Oh,
that did torture me, but not in the same way: not so much as the damned
consciousness that I had torn that damned money off my breast at last
and spent it, and had become a downright thief! Oh, gentlemen, I tell
you again, with a bleeding heart, I have learnt a great deal this
night. I have learnt that it’s not only impossible to live a scoundrel,
but impossible to die a scoundrel.... No, gentlemen, one must die
honest....”

Mitya was pale. His face had a haggard and exhausted look, in spite of
his being intensely excited.

“I am beginning to understand you, Dmitri Fyodorovitch,” the prosecutor
said slowly, in a soft and almost compassionate tone. “But all this, if
you’ll excuse my saying so, is a matter of nerves, in my opinion ...
your overwrought nerves, that’s what it is. And why, for instance,
should you not have saved yourself such misery for almost a month, by
going and returning that fifteen hundred to the lady who had entrusted
it to you? And why could you not have explained things to her, and in
view of your position, which you describe as being so awful, why could
you not have had recourse to the plan which would so naturally have
occurred to one’s mind, that is, after honorably confessing your errors
to her, why could you not have asked her to lend you the sum needed for
your expenses, which, with her generous heart, she would certainly not
have refused you in your distress, especially if it had been with some
guarantee, or even on the security you offered to the merchant
Samsonov, and to Madame Hohlakov? I suppose you still regard that
security as of value?”

Mitya suddenly crimsoned.

“Surely you don’t think me such an out and out scoundrel as that? You
can’t be speaking in earnest?” he said, with indignation, looking the
prosecutor straight in the face, and seeming unable to believe his
ears.

“I assure you I’m in earnest.... Why do you imagine I’m not serious?”
It was the prosecutor’s turn to be surprised.

“Oh, how base that would have been! Gentlemen, do you know, you are
torturing me! Let me tell you everything, so be it. I’ll confess all my
infernal wickedness, but to put you to shame, and you’ll be surprised
yourselves at the depth of ignominy to which a medley of human passions
can sink. You must know that I already had that plan myself, that plan
you spoke of, just now, prosecutor! Yes, gentlemen, I, too, have had
that thought in my mind all this current month, so that I was on the
point of deciding to go to Katya—I was mean enough for that. But to go
to her, to tell her of my treachery, and for that very treachery, to
carry it out, for the expenses of that treachery, to beg for money from
her, Katya (to beg, do you hear, to beg), and go straight from her to
run away with the other, the rival, who hated and insulted her—to think
of it! You must be mad, prosecutor!”

“Mad I am not, but I did speak in haste, without thinking ... of that
feminine jealousy ... if there could be jealousy in this case, as you
assert ... yes, perhaps there is something of the kind,” said the
prosecutor, smiling.

“But that would have been so infamous!” Mitya brought his fist down on
the table fiercely. “That would have been filthy beyond everything!
Yes, do you know that she might have given me that money, yes, and she
would have given it, too; she’d have been certain to give it, to be
revenged on me, she’d have given it to satisfy her vengeance, to show
her contempt for me, for hers is an infernal nature, too, and she’s a
woman of great wrath. I’d have taken the money, too, oh, I should have
taken it; I should have taken it, and then, for the rest of my life ...
oh, God! Forgive me, gentlemen, I’m making such an outcry because I’ve
had that thought in my mind so lately, only the day before yesterday,
that night when I was having all that bother with Lyagavy, and
afterwards yesterday, all day yesterday, I remember, till that happened
...”

“Till what happened?” put in Nikolay Parfenovitch inquisitively, but
Mitya did not hear it.

“I have made you an awful confession,” Mitya said gloomily in
conclusion. “You must appreciate it, and what’s more, you must respect
it, for if not, if that leaves your souls untouched, then you’ve simply
no respect for me, gentlemen, I tell you that, and I shall die of shame
at having confessed it to men like you! Oh, I shall shoot myself! Yes,
I see, I see already that you don’t believe me. What, you want to write
that down, too?” he cried in dismay.

“Yes, what you said just now,” said Nikolay Parfenovitch, looking at
him in surprise, “that is, that up to the last hour you were still
contemplating going to Katerina Ivanovna to beg that sum from her.... I
assure you, that’s a very important piece of evidence for us, Dmitri
Fyodorovitch, I mean for the whole case ... and particularly for you,
particularly important for you.”

“Have mercy, gentlemen!” Mitya flung up his hands. “Don’t write that,
anyway; have some shame. Here I’ve torn my heart asunder before you,
and you seize the opportunity and are fingering the wounds in both
halves.... Oh, my God!”

In despair he hid his face in his hands.

“Don’t worry yourself so, Dmitri Fyodorovitch,” observed the
prosecutor, “everything that is written down will be read over to you
afterwards, and what you don’t agree to we’ll alter as you like. But
now I’ll ask you one little question for the second time. Has no one,
absolutely no one, heard from you of that money you sewed up? That, I
must tell you, is almost impossible to believe.”

“No one, no one, I told you so before, or you’ve not understood
anything! Let me alone!”

“Very well, this matter is bound to be explained, and there’s plenty of
time for it, but meantime, consider; we have perhaps a dozen witnesses
that you yourself spread it abroad, and even shouted almost everywhere
about the three thousand you’d spent here; three thousand, not fifteen
hundred. And now, too, when you got hold of the money you had
yesterday, you gave many people to understand that you had brought
three thousand with you.”

“You’ve got not dozens, but hundreds of witnesses, two hundred
witnesses, two hundred have heard it, thousands have heard it!” cried
Mitya.

“Well, you see, all bear witness to it. And the word _all_ means
something.”

“It means nothing. I talked rot, and every one began repeating it.”

“But what need had you to ‘talk rot,’ as you call it?”

“The devil knows. From bravado perhaps ... at having wasted so much
money.... To try and forget that money I had sewn up, perhaps ... yes,
that was why ... damn it ... how often will you ask me that question?
Well, I told a fib, and that was the end of it, once I’d said it, I
didn’t care to correct it. What does a man tell lies for sometimes?”

“That’s very difficult to decide, Dmitri Fyodorovitch, what makes a man
tell lies,” observed the prosecutor impressively. “Tell me, though, was
that ‘amulet,’ as you call it, on your neck, a big thing?”

“No, not big.”

“How big, for instance?”

“If you fold a hundred-rouble note in half, that would be the size.”

“You’d better show us the remains of it. You must have them somewhere.”

“Damnation, what nonsense! I don’t know where they are.”

“But excuse me: where and when did you take it off your neck? According
to your own evidence you didn’t go home.”

“When I was going from Fenya’s to Perhotin’s, on the way I tore it off
my neck and took out the money.”

“In the dark?”

“What should I want a light for? I did it with my fingers in one
minute.”

“Without scissors, in the street?”

“In the market-place I think it was. Why scissors? It was an old rag.
It was torn in a minute.”

“Where did you put it afterwards?”

“I dropped it there.”

“Where was it, exactly?”

“In the market-place, in the market-place! The devil knows whereabouts.
What do you want to know for?”

“That’s extremely important, Dmitri Fyodorovitch. It would be material
evidence in your favor. How is it you don’t understand that? Who helped
you to sew it up a month ago?”

“No one helped me. I did it myself.”

“Can you sew?”

“A soldier has to know how to sew. No knowledge was needed to do that.”

“Where did you get the material, that is, the rag in which you sewed
the money?”

“Are you laughing at me?”

“Not at all. And we are in no mood for laughing, Dmitri Fyodorovitch.”

“I don’t know where I got the rag from—somewhere, I suppose.”

“I should have thought you couldn’t have forgotten it?”

“Upon my word, I don’t remember. I might have torn a bit off my linen.”

“That’s very interesting. We might find in your lodgings to-morrow the
shirt or whatever it is from which you tore the rag. What sort of rag
was it, cloth or linen?”

“Goodness only knows what it was. Wait a bit.... I believe I didn’t
tear it off anything. It was a bit of calico.... I believe I sewed it
up in a cap of my landlady’s.”

“In your landlady’s cap?”

“Yes. I took it from her.”

“How did you get it?”

“You see, I remember once taking a cap for a rag, perhaps to wipe my
pen on. I took it without asking, because it was a worthless rag. I
tore it up, and I took the notes and sewed them up in it. I believe it
was in that very rag I sewed them. An old piece of calico, washed a
thousand times.”

“And you remember that for certain now?”

“I don’t know whether for certain. I think it was in the cap. But, hang
it, what does it matter?”

“In that case your landlady will remember that the thing was lost?”

“No, she won’t, she didn’t miss it. It was an old rag, I tell you, an
old rag not worth a farthing.”

“And where did you get the needle and thread?”

“I’ll stop now. I won’t say any more. Enough of it!” said Mitya, losing
his temper at last.

“It’s strange that you should have so completely forgotten where you
threw the pieces in the market-place.”

“Give orders for the market-place to be swept to-morrow, and perhaps
you’ll find it,” said Mitya, sneering. “Enough, gentlemen, enough!” he
decided, in an exhausted voice. “I see you don’t believe me! Not for a
moment! It’s my fault, not yours. I ought not to have been so ready.
Why, why did I degrade myself by confessing my secret to you? It’s a
joke to you. I see that from your eyes. You led me on to it,
prosecutor? Sing a hymn of triumph if you can.... Damn you, you
torturers!”

He bent his head, and hid his face in his hands. The lawyers were
silent. A minute later he raised his head and looked at them almost
vacantly. His face now expressed complete, hopeless despair, and he sat
mute and passive as though hardly conscious of what was happening. In
the meantime they had to finish what they were about. They had
immediately to begin examining the witnesses. It was by now eight
o’clock in the morning. The lights had been extinguished long ago.
Mihail Makarovitch and Kalganov, who had been continually in and out of
the room all the while the interrogation had been going on, had now
both gone out again. The lawyers, too, looked very tired. It was a
wretched morning, the whole sky was overcast, and the rain streamed
down in bucketfuls. Mitya gazed blankly out of the window.

“May I look out of the window?” he asked Nikolay Parfenovitch,
suddenly.

“Oh, as much as you like,” the latter replied.

Mitya got up and went to the window.... The rain lashed against its
little greenish panes. He could see the muddy road just below the
house, and farther away, in the rain and mist, a row of poor, black,
dismal huts, looking even blacker and poorer in the rain. Mitya thought
of “Phœbus the golden-haired,” and how he had meant to shoot himself at
his first ray. “Perhaps it would be even better on a morning like
this,” he thought with a smile, and suddenly, flinging his hand
downwards, he turned to his “torturers.”

“Gentlemen,” he cried, “I see that I am lost! But she? Tell me about
her, I beseech you. Surely she need not be ruined with me? She’s
innocent, you know, she was out of her mind when she cried last night
‘It’s all my fault!’ She’s done nothing, nothing! I’ve been grieving
over her all night as I sat with you.... Can’t you, won’t you tell me
what you are going to do with her now?”

“You can set your mind quite at rest on that score, Dmitri
Fyodorovitch,” the prosecutor answered at once, with evident alacrity.
“We have, so far, no grounds for interfering with the lady in whom you
are so interested. I trust that it may be the same in the later
development of the case.... On the contrary, we’ll do everything that
lies in our power in that matter. Set your mind completely at rest.”

“Gentlemen, I thank you. I knew that you were honest, straight-forward
people in spite of everything. You’ve taken a load off my heart....
Well, what are we to do now? I’m ready.”

“Well, we ought to make haste. We must pass to examining the witnesses
without delay. That must be done in your presence and therefore—”

“Shouldn’t we have some tea first?” interposed Nikolay Parfenovitch, “I
think we’ve deserved it!”

They decided that if tea were ready downstairs (Mihail Makarovitch had,
no doubt, gone down to get some) they would have a glass and then “go
on and on,” putting off their proper breakfast until a more favorable
opportunity. Tea really was ready below, and was soon brought up. Mitya
at first refused the glass that Nikolay Parfenovitch politely offered
him, but afterwards he asked for it himself and drank it greedily. He
looked surprisingly exhausted. It might have been supposed from his
Herculean strength that one night of carousing, even accompanied by the
most violent emotions, could have had little effect on him. But he felt
that he could hardly hold his head up, and from time to time all the
objects about him seemed heaving and dancing before his eyes. “A little
more and I shall begin raving,” he said to himself.




Chapter VIII.
The Evidence Of The Witnesses. The Babe


The examination of the witnesses began. But we will not continue our
story in such detail as before. And so we will not dwell on how Nikolay
Parfenovitch impressed on every witness called that he must give his
evidence in accordance with truth and conscience, and that he would
afterwards have to repeat his evidence on oath, how every witness was
called upon to sign the protocol of his evidence, and so on. We will
only note that the point principally insisted upon in the examination
was the question of the three thousand roubles, that is, was the sum
spent here, at Mokroe, by Mitya on the first occasion, a month before,
three thousand or fifteen hundred? And again had he spent three
thousand or fifteen hundred yesterday? Alas, all the evidence given by
every one turned out to be against Mitya. There was not one in his
favor, and some witnesses introduced new, almost crushing facts, in
contradiction of his, Mitya’s, story.

The first witness examined was Trifon Borissovitch. He was not in the
least abashed as he stood before the lawyers. He had, on the contrary,
an air of stern and severe indignation with the accused, which gave him
an appearance of truthfulness and personal dignity. He spoke little,
and with reserve, waited to be questioned, answered precisely and
deliberately. Firmly and unhesitatingly he bore witness that the sum
spent a month before could not have been less than three thousand, that
all the peasants about here would testify that they had heard the sum
of three thousand mentioned by Dmitri Fyodorovitch himself. “What a lot
of money he flung away on the gypsy girls alone! He wasted a thousand,
I daresay, on them alone.”

“I don’t believe I gave them five hundred,” was Mitya’s gloomy comment
on this. “It’s a pity I didn’t count the money at the time, but I was
drunk....”

Mitya was sitting sideways with his back to the curtains. He listened
gloomily, with a melancholy and exhausted air, as though he would say:

“Oh, say what you like. It makes no difference now.”

“More than a thousand went on them, Dmitri Fyodorovitch,” retorted
Trifon Borissovitch firmly. “You flung it about at random and they
picked it up. They were a rascally, thievish lot, horse-stealers,
they’ve been driven away from here, or maybe they’d bear witness
themselves how much they got from you. I saw the sum in your hands,
myself—count it I didn’t, you didn’t let me, that’s true enough—but by
the look of it I should say it was far more than fifteen hundred ...
fifteen hundred, indeed! We’ve seen money too. We can judge of
amounts....”

As for the sum spent yesterday he asserted that Dmitri Fyodorovitch had
told him, as soon as he arrived, that he had brought three thousand
with him.

“Come now, is that so, Trifon Borissovitch?” replied Mitya. “Surely I
didn’t declare so positively that I’d brought three thousand?”

“You did say so, Dmitri Fyodorovitch. You said it before Andrey. Andrey
himself is still here. Send for him. And in the hall, when you were
treating the chorus, you shouted straight out that you would leave your
sixth thousand here—that is with what you spent before, we must
understand. Stepan and Semyon heard it, and Pyotr Fomitch Kalganov,
too, was standing beside you at the time. Maybe he’d remember it....”

The evidence as to the “sixth” thousand made an extraordinary
impression on the two lawyers. They were delighted with this new mode
of reckoning; three and three made six, three thousand then and three
now made six, that was clear.

They questioned all the peasants suggested by Trifon Borissovitch,
Stepan and Semyon, the driver Andrey, and Kalganov. The peasants and
the driver unhesitatingly confirmed Trifon Borissovitch’s evidence.
They noted down, with particular care, Andrey’s account of the
conversation he had had with Mitya on the road: “‘Where,’ says he, ‘am
I, Dmitri Fyodorovitch, going, to heaven or to hell, and shall I be
forgiven in the next world or not?’”

The psychological Ippolit Kirillovitch heard this with a subtle smile,
and ended by recommending that these remarks as to where Dmitri
Fyodorovitch would go should be “included in the case.”

Kalganov, when called, came in reluctantly, frowning and ill-humored,
and he spoke to the lawyers as though he had never met them before in
his life, though they were acquaintances whom he had been meeting every
day for a long time past. He began by saying that “he knew nothing
about it and didn’t want to.” But it appeared that he had heard of the
“sixth” thousand, and he admitted that he had been standing close by at
the moment. As far as he could see he “didn’t know” how much money
Mitya had in his hands. He affirmed that the Poles had cheated at
cards. In reply to reiterated questions he stated that, after the Poles
had been turned out, Mitya’s position with Agrafena Alexandrovna had
certainly improved, and that she had said that she loved him. He spoke
of Agrafena Alexandrovna with reserve and respect, as though she had
been a lady of the best society, and did not once allow himself to call
her Grushenka. In spite of the young man’s obvious repugnance at giving
evidence, Ippolit Kirillovitch examined him at great length, and only
from him learnt all the details of what made up Mitya’s “romance,” so
to say, on that night. Mitya did not once pull Kalganov up. At last
they let the young man go, and he left the room with unconcealed
indignation.

The Poles, too, were examined. Though they had gone to bed in their
room, they had not slept all night, and on the arrival of the police
officers they hastily dressed and got ready, realizing that they would
certainly be sent for. They gave their evidence with dignity, though
not without some uneasiness. The little Pole turned out to be a retired
official of the twelfth class, who had served in Siberia as a
veterinary surgeon. His name was Mussyalovitch. Pan Vrublevsky turned
out to be an uncertificated dentist. Although Nikolay Parfenovitch
asked them questions on entering the room they both addressed their
answers to Mihail Makarovitch, who was standing on one side, taking him
in their ignorance for the most important person and in command, and
addressed him at every word as “Pan Colonel.” Only after several
reproofs from Mihail Makarovitch himself, they grasped that they had to
address their answers to Nikolay Parfenovitch only. It turned out that
they could speak Russian quite correctly except for their accent in
some words. Of his relations with Grushenka, past and present, Pan
Mussyalovitch spoke proudly and warmly, so that Mitya was roused at
once and declared that he would not allow the “scoundrel” to speak like
that in his presence! Pan Mussyalovitch at once called attention to the
word “scoundrel” and begged that it should be put down in the protocol.
Mitya fumed with rage.

“He’s a scoundrel! A scoundrel! You can put that down. And put down,
too, that, in spite of the protocol I still declare that he’s a
scoundrel!” he cried.

Though Nikolay Parfenovitch did insert this in the protocol, he showed
the most praiseworthy tact and management. After sternly reprimanding
Mitya, he cut short all further inquiry into the romantic aspect of the
case, and hastened to pass to what was essential. One piece of evidence
given by the Poles roused special interest in the lawyers: that was
how, in that very room, Mitya had tried to buy off Pan Mussyalovitch,
and had offered him three thousand roubles to resign his claims, seven
hundred roubles down, and the remaining two thousand three hundred “to
be paid next day in the town.” He had sworn at the time that he had not
the whole sum with him at Mokroe, but that his money was in the town.
Mitya observed hotly that he had not said that he would be sure to pay
him the remainder next day in the town. But Pan Vrublevsky confirmed
the statement, and Mitya, after thinking for a moment admitted,
frowning, that it must have been as the Poles stated, that he had been
excited at the time, and might indeed have said so.

The prosecutor positively pounced on this piece of evidence. It seemed
to establish for the prosecution (and they did, in fact, base this
deduction on it) that half, or a part of, the three thousand that had
come into Mitya’s hands might really have been left somewhere hidden in
the town, or even, perhaps, somewhere here, in Mokroe. This would
explain the circumstance, so baffling for the prosecution, that only
eight hundred roubles were to be found in Mitya’s hands. This
circumstance had been the one piece of evidence which, insignificant as
it was, had hitherto told, to some extent, in Mitya’s favor. Now this
one piece of evidence in his favor had broken down. In answer to the
prosecutor’s inquiry, where he would have got the remaining two
thousand three hundred roubles, since he himself had denied having more
than fifteen hundred, Mitya confidently replied that he had meant to
offer the “little chap,” not money, but a formal deed of conveyance of
his rights to the village of Tchermashnya, those rights which he had
already offered to Samsonov and Madame Hohlakov. The prosecutor
positively smiled at the “innocence of this subterfuge.”

“And you imagine he would have accepted such a deed as a substitute for
two thousand three hundred roubles in cash?”

“He certainly would have accepted it,” Mitya declared warmly. “Why,
look here, he might have grabbed not two thousand, but four or six, for
it. He would have put his lawyers, Poles and Jews, on to the job, and
might have got, not three thousand, but the whole property out of the
old man.”

The evidence of Pan Mussyalovitch was, of course, entered in the
protocol in the fullest detail. Then they let the Poles go. The
incident of the cheating at cards was hardly touched upon. Nikolay
Parfenovitch was too well pleased with them, as it was, and did not
want to worry them with trifles, moreover, it was nothing but a
foolish, drunken quarrel over cards. There had been drinking and
disorder enough, that night.... So the two hundred roubles remained in
the pockets of the Poles.

Then old Maximov was summoned. He came in timidly, approached with
little steps, looking very disheveled and depressed. He had, all this
time, taken refuge below with Grushenka, sitting dumbly beside her, and
“now and then he’d begin blubbering over her and wiping his eyes with a
blue check handkerchief,” as Mihail Makarovitch described afterwards.
So that she herself began trying to pacify and comfort him. The old man
at once confessed that he had done wrong, that he had borrowed “ten
roubles in my poverty,” from Dmitri Fyodorovitch, and that he was ready
to pay it back. To Nikolay Parfenovitch’s direct question, had he
noticed how much money Dmitri Fyodorovitch held in his hand, as he must
have been able to see the sum better than any one when he took the note
from him, Maximov, in the most positive manner, declared that there was
twenty thousand.

“Have you ever seen so much as twenty thousand before, then?” inquired
Nikolay Parfenovitch, with a smile.

“To be sure I have, not twenty, but seven, when my wife mortgaged my
little property. She’d only let me look at it from a distance, boasting
of it to me. It was a very thick bundle, all rainbow-colored notes. And
Dmitri Fyodorovitch’s were all rainbow-colored....”

He was not kept long. At last it was Grushenka’s turn. Nikolay
Parfenovitch was obviously apprehensive of the effect her appearance
might have on Mitya, and he muttered a few words of admonition to him,
but Mitya bowed his head in silence, giving him to understand “that he
would not make a scene.” Mihail Makarovitch himself led Grushenka in.
She entered with a stern and gloomy face, that looked almost composed
and sat down quietly on the chair offered her by Nikolay Parfenovitch.
She was very pale, she seemed to be cold, and wrapped herself closely
in her magnificent black shawl. She was suffering from a slight
feverish chill—the first symptom of the long illness which followed
that night. Her grave air, her direct earnest look and quiet manner
made a very favorable impression on every one. Nikolay Parfenovitch was
even a little bit “fascinated.” He admitted himself, when talking about
it afterwards, that only then had he seen “how handsome the woman was,”
for, though he had seen her several times before, he had always looked
upon her as something of a “provincial hetaira.” “She has the manners
of the best society,” he said enthusiastically, gossiping about her in
a circle of ladies. But this was received with positive indignation by
the ladies, who immediately called him a “naughty man,” to his great
satisfaction.

As she entered the room, Grushenka only glanced for an instant at
Mitya, who looked at her uneasily. But her face reassured him at once.
After the first inevitable inquiries and warnings, Nikolay Parfenovitch
asked her, hesitating a little, but preserving the most courteous
manner, on what terms she was with the retired lieutenant, Dmitri
Fyodorovitch Karamazov. To this Grushenka firmly and quietly replied:

“He was an acquaintance. He came to see me as an acquaintance during
the last month.” To further inquisitive questions she answered plainly
and with complete frankness, that, though “at times” she had thought
him attractive, she had not loved him, but had won his heart as well as
his old father’s “in my nasty spite,” that she had seen that Mitya was
very jealous of Fyodor Pavlovitch and every one else; but that had only
amused her. She had never meant to go to Fyodor Pavlovitch, she had
simply been laughing at him. “I had no thoughts for either of them all
this last month. I was expecting another man who had wronged me. But I
think,” she said in conclusion, “that there’s no need for you to
inquire about that, nor for me to answer you, for that’s my own
affair.”

Nikolay Parfenovitch immediately acted upon this hint. He again
dismissed the “romantic” aspect of the case and passed to the serious
one, that is, to the question of most importance, concerning the three
thousand roubles. Grushenka confirmed the statement that three thousand
roubles had certainly been spent on the first carousal at Mokroe, and,
though she had not counted the money herself, she had heard that it was
three thousand from Dmitri Fyodorovitch’s own lips.

“Did he tell you that alone, or before some one else, or did you only
hear him speak of it to others in your presence?” the prosecutor
inquired immediately.

To which Grushenka replied that she had heard him say so before other
people, and had heard him say so when they were alone.

“Did he say it to you alone once, or several times?” inquired the
prosecutor, and learned that he had told Grushenka so several times.

Ippolit Kirillovitch was very well satisfied with this piece of
evidence. Further examination elicited that Grushenka knew, too, where
that money had come from, and that Dmitri Fyodorovitch had got it from
Katerina Ivanovna.

“And did you never, once, hear that the money spent a month ago was not
three thousand, but less, and that Dmitri Fyodorovitch had saved half
that sum for his own use?”

“No, I never heard that,” answered Grushenka.

It was explained further that Mitya had, on the contrary, often told
her that he hadn’t a farthing.

“He was always expecting to get some from his father,” said Grushenka
in conclusion.

“Did he never say before you ... casually, or in a moment of
irritation,” Nikolay Parfenovitch put in suddenly, “that he intended to
make an attempt on his father’s life?”

“Ach, he did say so,” sighed Grushenka.

“Once or several times?”

“He mentioned it several times, always in anger.”

“And did you believe he would do it?”

“No, I never believed it,” she answered firmly. “I had faith in his
noble heart.”

“Gentlemen, allow me,” cried Mitya suddenly, “allow me to say one word
to Agrafena Alexandrovna, in your presence.”

“You can speak,” Nikolay Parfenovitch assented.

“Agrafena Alexandrovna!” Mitya got up from his chair, “have faith in
God and in me. I am not guilty of my father’s murder!”

Having uttered these words Mitya sat down again on his chair. Grushenka
stood up and crossed herself devoutly before the ikon. “Thanks be to
Thee, O Lord,” she said, in a voice thrilled with emotion, and still
standing, she turned to Nikolay Parfenovitch and added:

“As he has spoken now, believe it! I know him. He’ll say anything as a
joke or from obstinacy, but he’ll never deceive you against his
conscience. He’s telling the whole truth, you may believe it.”

“Thanks, Agrafena Alexandrovna, you’ve given me fresh courage,” Mitya
responded in a quivering voice.

As to the money spent the previous day, she declared that she did not
know what sum it was, but had heard him tell several people that he had
three thousand with him. And to the question where he got the money,
she said that he had told her that he had “stolen” it from Katerina
Ivanovna, and that she had replied to that that he hadn’t stolen it,
and that he must pay the money back next day. On the prosecutor’s
asking her emphatically whether the money he said he had stolen from
Katerina Ivanovna was what he had spent yesterday, or what he had
squandered here a month ago, she declared that he meant the money spent
a month ago, and that that was how she understood him.

Grushenka was at last released, and Nikolay Parfenovitch informed her
impulsively that she might at once return to the town and that if he
could be of any assistance to her, with horses for example, or if she
would care for an escort, he ... would be—

“I thank you sincerely,” said Grushenka, bowing to him, “I’m going with
this old gentleman, I am driving him back to town with me, and
meanwhile, if you’ll allow me, I’ll wait below to hear what you decide
about Dmitri Fyodorovitch.”

She went out. Mitya was calm, and even looked more cheerful, but only
for a moment. He felt more and more oppressed by a strange physical
weakness. His eyes were closing with fatigue. The examination of the
witnesses was, at last, over. They proceeded to a final revision of the
protocol. Mitya got up, moved from his chair to the corner by the
curtain, lay down on a large chest covered with a rug, and instantly
fell asleep.

He had a strange dream, utterly out of keeping with the place and the
time.

He was driving somewhere in the steppes, where he had been stationed
long ago, and a peasant was driving him in a cart with a pair of
horses, through snow and sleet. He was cold, it was early in November,
and the snow was falling in big wet flakes, melting as soon as it
touched the earth. And the peasant drove him smartly, he had a fair,
long beard. He was not an old man, somewhere about fifty, and he had on
a gray peasant’s smock. Not far off was a village, he could see the
black huts, and half the huts were burnt down, there were only the
charred beams sticking up. And as they drove in, there were peasant
women drawn up along the road, a lot of women, a whole row, all thin
and wan, with their faces a sort of brownish color, especially one at
the edge, a tall, bony woman, who looked forty, but might have been
only twenty, with a long thin face. And in her arms was a little baby
crying. And her breasts seemed so dried up that there was not a drop of
milk in them. And the child cried and cried, and held out its little
bare arms, with its little fists blue from cold.

“Why are they crying? Why are they crying?” Mitya asked, as they dashed
gayly by.

“It’s the babe,” answered the driver, “the babe weeping.”

And Mitya was struck by his saying, in his peasant way, “the babe,” and
he liked the peasant’s calling it a “babe.” There seemed more pity in
it.

“But why is it weeping?” Mitya persisted stupidly, “why are its little
arms bare? Why don’t they wrap it up?”

“The babe’s cold, its little clothes are frozen and don’t warm it.”

“But why is it? Why?” foolish Mitya still persisted.

“Why, they’re poor people, burnt out. They’ve no bread. They’re begging
because they’ve been burnt out.”

“No, no,” Mitya, as it were, still did not understand. “Tell me why it
is those poor mothers stand there? Why are people poor? Why is the babe
poor? Why is the steppe barren? Why don’t they hug each other and kiss?
Why don’t they sing songs of joy? Why are they so dark from black
misery? Why don’t they feed the babe?”

And he felt that, though his questions were unreasonable and senseless,
yet he wanted to ask just that, and he had to ask it just in that way.
And he felt that a passion of pity, such as he had never known before,
was rising in his heart, that he wanted to cry, that he wanted to do
something for them all, so that the babe should weep no more, so that
the dark-faced, dried-up mother should not weep, that no one should
shed tears again from that moment, and he wanted to do it at once, at
once, regardless of all obstacles, with all the recklessness of the
Karamazovs.

“And I’m coming with you. I won’t leave you now for the rest of my
life, I’m coming with you,” he heard close beside him Grushenka’s
tender voice, thrilling with emotion. And his heart glowed, and he
struggled forward towards the light, and he longed to live, to live, to
go on and on, towards the new, beckoning light, and to hasten, hasten,
now, at once!

“What! Where?” he exclaimed opening his eyes, and sitting up on the
chest, as though he had revived from a swoon, smiling brightly. Nikolay
Parfenovitch was standing over him, suggesting that he should hear the
protocol read aloud and sign it. Mitya guessed that he had been asleep
an hour or more, but he did not hear Nikolay Parfenovitch. He was
suddenly struck by the fact that there was a pillow under his head,
which hadn’t been there when he had leant back, exhausted, on the
chest.

“Who put that pillow under my head? Who was so kind?” he cried, with a
sort of ecstatic gratitude, and tears in his voice, as though some
great kindness had been shown him.

He never found out who this kind man was; perhaps one of the peasant
witnesses, or Nikolay Parfenovitch’s little secretary, had
compassionately thought to put a pillow under his head; but his whole
soul was quivering with tears. He went to the table and said that he
would sign whatever they liked.

“I’ve had a good dream, gentlemen,” he said in a strange voice, with a
new light, as of joy, in his face.




Chapter IX.
They Carry Mitya Away


When the protocol had been signed, Nikolay Parfenovitch turned solemnly
to the prisoner and read him the “Committal,” setting forth, that in
such a year, on such a day, in such a place, the investigating lawyer
of such-and-such a district court, having examined so-and-so (to wit,
Mitya) accused of this and of that (all the charges were carefully
written out) and having considered that the accused, not pleading
guilty to the charges made against him, had brought forward nothing in
his defense, while the witnesses, so-and-so, and so-and-so, and the
circumstances such-and-such testify against him, acting in accordance
with such-and-such articles of the Statute Book, and so on, has ruled,
that, in order to preclude so-and-so (Mitya) from all means of evading
pursuit and judgment he be detained in such-and-such a prison, which he
hereby notifies to the accused and communicates a copy of this same
“Committal” to the deputy prosecutor, and so on, and so on.

In brief, Mitya was informed that he was, from that moment, a prisoner,
and that he would be driven at once to the town, and there shut up in a
very unpleasant place. Mitya listened attentively, and only shrugged
his shoulders.

“Well, gentlemen, I don’t blame you. I’m ready.... I understand that
there’s nothing else for you to do.”

Nikolay Parfenovitch informed him gently that he would be escorted at
once by the rural police officer, Mavriky Mavrikyevitch, who happened
to be on the spot....

“Stay,” Mitya interrupted, suddenly, and impelled by uncontrollable
feeling he pronounced, addressing all in the room:

“Gentlemen, we’re all cruel, we’re all monsters, we all make men weep,
and mothers, and babes at the breast, but of all, let it be settled
here, now, of all I am the lowest reptile! I’ve sworn to amend, and
every day I’ve done the same filthy things. I understand now that such
men as I need a blow, a blow of destiny to catch them as with a noose,
and bind them by a force from without. Never, never should I have risen
of myself! But the thunderbolt has fallen. I accept the torture of
accusation, and my public shame, I want to suffer and by suffering I
shall be purified. Perhaps I shall be purified, gentlemen? But listen,
for the last time, I am not guilty of my father’s blood. I accept my
punishment, not because I killed him, but because I meant to kill him,
and perhaps I really might have killed him. Still I mean to fight it
out with you. I warn you of that. I’ll fight it out with you to the
end, and then God will decide. Good-by, gentlemen, don’t be vexed with
me for having shouted at you during the examination. Oh, I was still
such a fool then.... In another minute I shall be a prisoner, but now,
for the last time, as a free man, Dmitri Karamazov offers you his hand.
Saying good-by to you, I say it to all men.”

His voice quivered and he stretched out his hand, but Nikolay
Parfenovitch, who happened to stand nearest to him, with a sudden,
almost nervous movement, hid his hands behind his back. Mitya instantly
noticed this, and started. He let his outstretched hand fall at once.

“The preliminary inquiry is not yet over,” Nikolay Parfenovitch
faltered, somewhat embarrassed. “We will continue it in the town, and
I, for my part, of course, am ready to wish you all success ... in your
defense.... As a matter of fact, Dmitri Fyodorovitch, I’ve always been
disposed to regard you as, so to speak, more unfortunate than guilty.
All of us here, if I may make bold to speak for all, we are all ready
to recognize that you are, at bottom, a young man of honor, but, alas,
one who has been carried away by certain passions to a somewhat
excessive degree....”

Nikolay Parfenovitch’s little figure was positively majestic by the
time he had finished speaking. It struck Mitya that in another minute
this “boy” would take his arm, lead him to another corner, and renew
their conversation about “girls.” But many quite irrelevant and
inappropriate thoughts sometimes occur even to a prisoner when he is
being led out to execution.

“Gentlemen, you are good, you are humane, may I see _her_ to say
‘good-by’ for the last time?” asked Mitya.

“Certainly, but considering ... in fact, now it’s impossible except in
the presence of—”

“Oh, well, if it must be so, it must!”

Grushenka was brought in, but the farewell was brief, and of few words,
and did not at all satisfy Nikolay Parfenovitch. Grushenka made a deep
bow to Mitya.

“I have told you I am yours, and I will be yours. I will follow you for
ever, wherever they may send you. Farewell; you are guiltless, though
you’ve been your own undoing.”

Her lips quivered, tears flowed from her eyes.

“Forgive me, Grusha, for my love, for ruining you, too, with my love.”

Mitya would have said something more, but he broke off and went out. He
was at once surrounded by men who kept a constant watch on him. At the
bottom of the steps to which he had driven up with such a dash the day
before with Andrey’s three horses, two carts stood in readiness.
Mavriky Mavrikyevitch, a sturdy, thick-set man with a wrinkled face,
was annoyed about something, some sudden irregularity. He was shouting
angrily. He asked Mitya to get into the cart with somewhat excessive
surliness.

“When I stood him drinks in the tavern, the man had quite a different
face,” thought Mitya, as he got in. At the gates there was a crowd of
people, peasants, women and drivers. Trifon Borissovitch came down the
steps too. All stared at Mitya.

“Forgive me at parting, good people!” Mitya shouted suddenly from the
cart.

“Forgive us too!” he heard two or three voices.

“Good-by to you, too, Trifon Borissovitch!”

But Trifon Borissovitch did not even turn round. He was, perhaps, too
busy. He, too, was shouting and fussing about something. It appeared
that everything was not yet ready in the second cart, in which two
constables were to accompany Mavriky Mavrikyevitch. The peasant who had
been ordered to drive the second cart was pulling on his smock, stoutly
maintaining that it was not his turn to go, but Akim’s. But Akim was
not to be seen. They ran to look for him. The peasant persisted and
besought them to wait.

“You see what our peasants are, Mavriky Mavrikyevitch. They’ve no
shame!” exclaimed Trifon Borissovitch. “Akim gave you twenty-five
copecks the day before yesterday. You’ve drunk it all and now you cry
out. I’m simply surprised at your good-nature, with our low peasants,
Mavriky Mavrikyevitch, that’s all I can say.”

“But what do we want a second cart for?” Mitya put in. “Let’s start
with the one, Mavriky Mavrikyevitch. I won’t be unruly, I won’t run
away from you, old fellow. What do we want an escort for?”

“I’ll trouble you, sir, to learn how to speak to me if you’ve never
been taught. I’m not ‘old fellow’ to you, and you can keep your advice
for another time!” Mavriky Mavrikyevitch snapped out savagely, as
though glad to vent his wrath.

Mitya was reduced to silence. He flushed all over. A moment later he
felt suddenly very cold. The rain had ceased, but the dull sky was
still overcast with clouds, and a keen wind was blowing straight in his
face.

“I’ve taken a chill,” thought Mitya, twitching his shoulders.

At last Mavriky Mavrikyevitch, too, got into the cart, sat down
heavily, and, as though without noticing it, squeezed Mitya into the
corner. It is true that he was out of humor and greatly disliked the
task that had been laid upon him.

“Good-by, Trifon Borissovitch!” Mitya shouted again, and felt himself,
that he had not called out this time from good-nature, but
involuntarily, from resentment.

But Trifon Borissovitch stood proudly, with both hands behind his back,
and staring straight at Mitya with a stern and angry face, he made no
reply.

“Good-by, Dmitri Fyodorovitch, good-by!” he heard all at once the voice
of Kalganov, who had suddenly darted out. Running up to the cart he
held out his hand to Mitya. He had no cap on.

Mitya had time to seize and press his hand.

“Good-by, dear fellow! I shan’t forget your generosity,” he cried
warmly.

But the cart moved and their hands parted. The bell began ringing and
Mitya was driven off.

Kalganov ran back, sat down in a corner, bent his head, hid his face in
his hands, and burst out crying. For a long while he sat like that,
crying as though he were a little boy instead of a young man of twenty.
Oh, he believed almost without doubt in Mitya’s guilt.

“What are these people? What can men be after this?” he exclaimed
incoherently, in bitter despondency, almost despair. At that moment he
had no desire to live.

“Is it worth it? Is it worth it?” exclaimed the boy in his grief.